# Industry intel: The end of ads? AI agents are about to change how we buy
Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F1ICMexazj0
Speakers: Eddie Lazarin (CTO a16z Crypto), Noah Levine (a16z), Sam Ragsdale (Merit Systems / Agent Cash founder)
Transcribed via Groq whisper-large-v3, first 25min of audio.
Captured: 2026-04-28 for jack-claw demo

Anything that a human can do with a computer, an agent can also do with a computer. We can now automate the commerce process. These things that I had to have a human being type a bunch of stuff or at least speak it, now that part can be automated. That's incredible. Long term, there's really mind-melting questions like, what is an app if your agent can grab everything behind the hood that your app used to grab for you? Do you need to use the Amazon app? Maybe the Amazon app sucks compared to just asking your agent to do all the homework, read all the reviews, show me the pictures I care about. You know what I like. Isn't that better? All right. Hey, everybody. I'm here with Eddie Lazarin, CTO of A16Z Crypto, Noah Levine, investment partner here at A16Z Crypto, and Sam Ragsdale, former A16Z Crypto teammate and current founder of the startup Merit Systems, who's working on a project called Agent Cash that we're going to dig into a little bit. But before we get into that, I want to set the context here. All the stuff that's going on with agents right now is very hard to keep track of if you're not paying extremely close attention to it all the time, 24-7. In fact, like, I've heard somebody describe it that you basically need to be unemployed to stay on top of everything that's happening because the pace is wildly fast and only accelerating. So what should we know about the state of the world today? Where are we? What's happened? Sam, do you want to kick us off since you are building and in the thick of it? There's a taxonomy I like to start with that I stole from Eric Reppel, that was one of the creators of X402 at Coinbase and now helps run the X402 Foundation by the Linux Foundation. The taxonomy splits it into one conversational commerce. This is checkout and chat GPT. This is like, you know, you go on to chat GPT and you say like, I'm a male that lives in the West Village and I go to Equinox and I want new shoes to fit in with my peers. And then, you know, it's very empathetic and it comes up with a great Nike result and then you buy it. And then there's sort of this other thing, which is delegating money to an agent to spend on your behalf to do some work. I think the conversational commerce thing is definitely happening. There will be checkout in ChatGPT, checkout in Gemini, checkout in Claude, and whatever the next 10 frontier models that come out are. That will be a great experience. It'll be great for consumers. They'll find better things, great for merchants. They'll have better conversion rates, and it'll be great for the platforms. They'll be able to take 5% to 10%, sort of like the new era Google Shopping, if you're familiar with that progression. And then there's sort of this other world where agents are fairly limited on their capabilities. There's certain things that your chatbots can do, but a lot of people get to their agents and they type in, you know, I'd like to do something hard, like I'd like to do outreach for sales. And the agent will say, I actually don't know how to do that. I don't have access to any of that information. And it's very helpful if your agent has some money, has some balance, it's able to pay for things that it couldn't otherwise and becomes more capable for a few cents at a time. So you're basically seeing two different worlds. one that is largely intermediated by a sort of like conventional LLM surface like ChatTPT, where you're asking for recommendations and asking for it to kind of go till the last mile and choose a product for you. And the platform gets some cut of the transaction versus another world where like you're deploying agents independently to go buy goods and services on your behalf. Yeah, I think there's like two versions of this. There's like the evolution of e-commerce, which, you know, through each platform shift, as we get the mobile era, commerce moves on to mobile. And as we get walled gardens, commerce moves into the walled gardens, and there's a new form of ads, and Google Shopping comes along at some point. And so, you know, people always want to buy stuff, and consumer behavior will change. The modern way that people look for information, particularly on what to buy, is through an LLM. And so it's natural that there will be some progression of commerce into two agents, particularly e-commerce, buying shoes and the internet, buying an edible arrangement, whatever it is. and then there's sort of this less skeuomorphic version which is that the shape of the internet is changing the way that people retrieve information and execute on information is changing with the advent of LLMs and particularly the agentic LLMs since GPT-4 and that it's possible that the internet that we've constructed over the past 20 years is not the internet that will exist in the future that it no longer makes sense to go through Google search and then click through a web UI that tries to upsell you etc and rather there will be a more agent native internet that exists where agents just pay for the stuff that they need to be more productive on behalf of their humans. This goes directly to a thesis that you've got, Noah. But before we get to that, I want to just like zoom out and up-level it for people who are even like bewildered by the fact that you can do all this commerce with agents now. Just to like ask, what is an agent fundamentally? I think people are used to interacting with LLMs, but now they're hearing about OpenClaw and they're hearing about how these entities can now have a fair degree of autonomy and get things done. But again, if you're not paying extremely close attention to it, you might not be familiar with just how far the tech has come. Maybe, Eddie, you can… Yeah, let me speedrun the last five months super fast. Starting around November or December, AI models got smarter. They got really good. What they specifically got good at is doing a complicated task over a long enough time horizon that it's kind of interesting, and then also using some tools. But the thing is that these AI models, and we tend to be kind of calling them agents now, kind of an anthropomorphization of the fact that they go help you by completing a task and not just writing code. That's why we call them an agent. The thing is they can't do everything. And that's because software isn't just like a little thing running on your computer. As we've learned from the internet, you have to connect with a lot of other stuff to make interesting things happen. There's all kinds of networks and all kinds of other people that need to be a part of the story. Okay And so what these agents do you could say that they have solved the intent formation part of the problem and maybe some even part of the preference modeling part of the problem of commerce So you tell it a thing it kind of knows what you want to do and it can map that to some tools It can map that to some networks and to some services That the intent formation part And it can kind of do some preference modeling too through conversation and memories It can kind of get a sense of what you prefer. And it can take that and impart that will onto tools and software and vendors and services. And that part being solved is incredibly exciting. And everyone wants to solve the rest, right? And the rest is kind of complicated. Maybe I'll stop at the part where you completed buying something, right? But at a minimum, if you're going to have a so-called agent engage in commerce for you, you need some story around authority and delegation. How do I prove to someone that this agent actually represents me? How do I handle identity and authentication? Like this is the same agent. The agent literally has the permission to represent me or whatever. show what authorities it has, show whether the merchant should trust it. There's a lot in there. And then there's the payment and settlement side, right? Once we've actually kind of, everything's connected, the agent reflected your intention, knows what to do, it needs to make a payment, right? It needs to like make a payment, show it can make a payment, split the payment, have refund logic. Like there's all kinds of stuff that needs to be built in there for payment. And I'm skipping over like search and I'm skipping over fraud and I'm skipping over some really important parts, but you can see how once those first two parts, the preference modeling and the intent formation is done, since those things were only ever achievable by a person, we can now automate the commerce process. That's like what the engineer brand says, right? It says like, oh my God, these two things that I had to have an human being type a bunch of stuff, or at least speak it, now that part can be automated. That's incredible. So now we run into all the problems. We need to run into what else you need to do to solve this. So when people talk about agentic commerce, which is what I think this podcast is about, it is about what remains to be solved to complete the stroke from I talked to the agent to it got whatever I needed, whether it's data, whether it's goods and services, whatever it is. And then what are the consequences of this because obviously this doesn't happen in isolation a lot of stuff flips around and is completely short-circuited by this very possibility right and that's why it's such an exciting category that is super helpful and just to like make sure we completely understand you know we went from having llms that can interact with you in natural language to getting a supercharged version that is now connected to various other networks and real world systems that... Well, it's not even the connection. The way you frame that makes it sound like the difference is what it's connected to, Robert. And that's not the difference because your laptop's already connected with all this stuff. Then nothing changed in terms of literally the connection, right? Nothing changed. What changed is that now they can use tools and they can think for a long time and they can keep stubbornly slamming their head against the wall until they finish the thing. I have a re-simplification of your simplification, which is LLMs are chatbots, right? They're great for talking to and they can do like customer or service things. That was thought to be the use case they'd be really good at. When they got really good at that, we figured out tool usage, which more concretely, a vast oversimplification would be that it made them good at using a computer. An LLM is a chatbot. An agent is a chatbot that can use a computer on your behalf. The thing that's really nice about it is they got to parity with human usage or the average human usage, sort of GPT-4, but then way more cheaply, right? Like a thousand times cheaper. And you can kind of just pour a little bit more money on it. You can scale it up quite dramatically. And so anything that a human can do with a computer, an agent can also do with a computer, rounding off on the details quite a bit. That's it. I mean, it's a simple premise, but a lot of things get rewired by this. And there's short-term consequences, there's medium-term consequences, and there's long-term consequences, right? Like short-term, everyone wants to get the pipes flowing. So actually, like, they can do stuff. Long-term, there's really mind-melting questions, like what is an app even? What is an app if your agent can grab everything behind the hood that your app used to grab for you? How much of a UI, how much of a surface do you even need? Do you need to use the Amazon app? Maybe the Amazon app sucks compared to just asking your agent to do all the homework, read all the reviews, show me the pictures I care about. You know what I like. Do it the usual, buddy. You know, like, isn't that better? So we've been calling this internally, and it's not a very catchy name. We've been calling it just-in-time natural language programming, which makes the non-programmer a programmer. You type in, you know, I would like to buy something for my fiance from Amazon. Here are her preferences. Here are the things I usually like to buy her, and here's what I bought last time. And I want you to crawl through about 1,000 different options, come up with the best thing that matches these, then buy it and, you know, find my home address and then ship it there. And really what's happening there is it's writing a program, right? an agent internally. You don't even see it in a lot of these chat experiences. But we'll write a program to do that complex thing. It'll probably be in a thousand line program in JavaScript and Bash and stuff. It'll execute it. The user will never see it. And then it'll throw it out. Four years ago, that was a ridiculous premise. Writing a program like that would require you a very expensive software engineer. They'd probably have to spend a week A, B testing it, getting the API keys, stuff like that. But now you can generate it for, I don't know, 20 cents in tokens and then execute it for maybe another 10 cents in API calls and then go buy the thing. And then you can throw it away. It's so cheap to make that you can just throw away your program when you're done with it. You don't upload it to GitHub or anything. And completely non-technical people can do this. My mom and my dad are writing natural language programs now and they don't even know it. They might be able to define themselves as a software engineer now. Pretty wild. Are you engaged now? Were you talking about your own experience of buying gifts from your fiance? I am engaged. Thank you for that. Congratulations Did you let the AI buy the ring We did not no The ring was around well before AI was around I think before the first computer as well All right Human literally still in the loop of the ring All right. So let's talk through some of these consequences. You had referenced one earlier, Sam, which was how commerce changes in a world where agents are doing a lot of the transactions. And this drives right to a thesis that you had devised and also a phrase you've coined, the headless merchant. Tell us about that. What is a headless merchant? Yeah, well, for sure. I, I think it's helpful to maybe step back a little bit and I think talk a little more about kind of what Sam was alluding to earlier, which I think, you know, there's different types of commerce. Obviously there's more of the using ChatGPT to, you know, buy shoes. That's more traditional consumer to merchant commerce. But then I think the other side is there's a, you know, huge market for, uh, B2B developer tooling. And I think, you know, as has already been mentioned, one of the big consequences of some of these platforms like Cloud Code and OpenAI with Codex is that it is completely democratizing who can be a developer. And so anyone with a computer and access to credits can go and build something. And as a result of that, I think what the experience is for a developer and how they engage in commerce from a tooling perspective is going to completely change. And oftentimes, rather than historically, a sophisticated developer goes in and says, these are the tools that I need and they have an opinion and maybe they engage with the enterprise team with them and go through billing and get a subscription. Now, I think what we're seeing is that the human who is now the developer is going in with the intention of this is what I want to build or this is what I want to do, but they're not opinionated about the actual resources that are used to accomplish that task. And so I think as a result of that, what you need in a world where what you're building is very ephemeral is access to things that are completely on a per usage basis and also don't require months of onboarding in order to be set up. And so when I think about, what does a headless merchant look like? It's really something that is more service towards the AI rather than to the actual humans themselves. And so rather than having a physical or a digital storefront that you go and website and that you navigate, it's really just simply an API endpoint and really good documentation that your model can perceive and interpret and then ultimately use. And it is likely that it will be done on a per API basis in terms of the cost and how you access it rather than something that is more long-term like a subscription or some sort of enterprise deal. Yeah, so I love hearing Noah say this thing because I feel like I was an AI in a prior life because for like all of time, I think, and I think many other software engineers are like this, when we're going to a site to buy software or buy an API or whatever, I have always felt like if I can't see the pricing and I can't see a way to get an API key with my credit card, I don't care. Like I just, I'm closing the tab. I just don't care anymore. I don't want to talk to you. I don't want to talk to the sales team. I don't want to do an email. I don't care. Like I, because having to set aside time to talk to the enterprise sales team is a huge commitment and a huge slowdown. And I don't even know if this thing works yet. Okay. I just want to get it working. Okay. I just want to try it out now. I want to try it out right now because I'm working on this thing over the weekend and I kind of want to ship it on Monday and just being able to punch in a credit card and get an API key and worry about reimbursement later and worry about the plans later, that's the way to move fast, 100%. That's just the way to do it. And I can't help but feel like in an age with ephemeral software, with just-in-time software, like Sam is saying, do you really want your agent, your agent's ripping? It's been going all night, okay? You know, you're super excited. You check in at 9 a.m., okay? You had to get a few hours of sleep. And then you see it's been blocked since 2.30 a.m. because the thing that it wanted needed you to talk to the enterprise sales team. Are you kidding me? Not to mention that if in their onboarding flow there's an enterprise sales team call, the costs are going to be about 10x for that API, and then you're going to have to pay about 10x because they need to put a person in front of you in order to manage the relationship. Yeah, 100%. That's just totally unacceptable. And so if you want the agents to be autonomous, again, not because you don't care about whatever you're making, But because you want speed, you want testing, you want to learn things, you want to be able to refine the product in response to customer feedback or whatever, you know, you want to get there now, you can't afford to wait. And so if an AI model goes and looks at the choices and says, by the way, I have three choices here. One requires enterprise sales team. One required me to set up a special credit card. But one, I could just send over stable coins and I got 10 bucks of credits and I got a proof of concept working. One of those is just the choice I'm going to choose every time. And that force alone implies a restructuring of part of the market. Let's play this out, though, because traditionally businesses, as much as these frictions make it hard to conduct business with them, they also sort of rely on some of these frictions in order to have lock-in or loyalty around their products and services. is how would a world where those frictions are gone affect your ability to reliably predict your revenues over time or how much loyalty you'd have from a purchaser? Robert, first, let me give you my glib, totally flippant answer, and then I'll give you my serious answer again. My glib answer is like, well, I guess we should make everything shitty then. Everything should have friction. It should suck. What are we doing? What are we doing? You know, everything should be right. And I say that only because, of course, like friction is something that we exploit for benefits sometimes. Like, for example, friction stops spammers. I mean, I think there needs to be more friction to stop spammers. Yeah, far more. Right, right. And so I'm not even saying friction is bad. Friction can create selection effects and can lead to better things. But also friction has a huge cost. And as the economy accelerates and as productivity improves and the leverage that you get from each minute of time increases, the cost of friction goes up. The opportunity cost of everything goes up. That the shape of everything that happening But then the real answer is there other things that will be sticky Just because you were able to spin up an API key in a second or just because you didn even need an API key because you had a crypto wallet key, and you could use that to pay, you don't even need to make an account. Your crypto key is your account. That's like the least friction setting. Just because you're in the least friction setting doesn't mean there's other types of things that keep a service sticky. There's going to be reputation. There's going to be memories. There's going to be state. There's going to be data. There's going to be even less tangible things like the trust of the agent. If the agent knows you need an answer now and it wants to move fast now, is it going to take a step back and do a 20-minute discovery session where it explores all of its new options before it takes a step forward? Probably not. It's going to have some memory that the last thing worked really well, and it's going to do that again, just like a smart person does. So I can ground this a little bit. We talk to a lot of merchants on a daily basis. We've looked at basically the full gamut of things that can possibly be sold over API today. And we talked to a lot of those people about coming on and getting what we call agent-native distribution, which is distribution into agents, the buyers of the future. And we learn a lot about their businesses in the process. And data particularly is generally a commodity good. There's generally five, 10, 50 sellers of it. And often within that cohort of sellers, there's one that's the leader that makes the most money. And they charge about 100x as much as the lowest common denominator. And often those providers have the same downstream provider. So it's literally the same data. And the way that they do that is that they have, as Eddie has pointed out, an enterprise sales team. They're usually very pretty people. And they'll send somebody out to your office to fly them out. You won't just have to get on a call to fly them out. and they'll convince you, you know, look at how beautiful our data is. It's the most beautiful data. There's been no data as beautiful as it, and you should pay us $35,000 a year. And then you'll sign that. And then when your two-year contract expires, that person will come back out and do their same song and dance. And then there's tens of thousands of companies that pay this. And the sort of smaller companies that probably have a better product on top of the same data, sort of like the ergonomics of accessing it are better, just sort of fail to get distribution and eventually go bankrupt. And there's no innovation there because this sort of enterprise sales team is the core product. It's not actually the data itself. I think in a world where agents get to pick, they don't want to talk to the enterprise sales team. They're not going to be fooled by your fancy sales team. They're going to try all of the different data sources. They'll find the one that works the best and then has the best pricing, particularly bulk pricing. And then they'll store in their memory that when I need to access this in the future, I'll use Minerva for this rather than the other three. and then they'll use that going forward. And so I think it creates a more efficient world. All of those 100,000 businesses that were being raked over the coals for $35,000 a year now can reallocate that to other productive things in their business. And we'll spend that on other agentic activities or creating a better sign or a better Google Maps listing or something like that. And consumers will have a better experience as a result of it. You know, I think another thing too is if you believe that AI is going to enable a whole new class of single person or one person companies, that are able to build products that would otherwise require a team of 50 to 100 people. An enterprise sales team doesn't make sense to go fly, you know, fly to someone's house and go to their basement and have a conversation with them. And so I think on the one hand, a lot of these existing merchants are probably fearful of, you know, how will this impact our ability to forecast revenue? Like how will this impact the reliability of, you know, our future streams? But I think at the other the other end of the spectrum, there's also a huge opportunity to now provide access to these services and tools that otherwise would have been very hard for them to integrate because of the type of developer that they are. So on the one hand, it's very different. And anytime there's change, there's usually pushback. But I think at the same time, it's potentially a whole new customer acquisition funnel if they're able to reduce a lot of the bottleneck and friction seen with accessing these tools. Yeah, on our demand side, the vast majority of our users have never used an API before. They don't know what an API is. They don't know what it stands for. They've never gotten an API key. They've never signed an enterprise service agreement. and they don't know why you would do that. And on their first usage, they'll compose six APIs together from six different merchants. And, you know, they'll write this natural language program, they'll get something done and they'll throw it away. And that means that there's a net new market for API consumers for people that are interested as a merchant in Azure native distribution. To me, it sounds like, you know, this distinction between where the market is at right now, where you have these like established players selling extremely expensive software that's over-optimized to people who can cut a big check to them versus like the lower end of the market, which is just doing these sort of one-off experiments, buying stuff with agents. It's like classic Clayton Christensen innovators dilemma where you've got this disparity between the two ends of the market. But what is going to make this thing more than just, you know, an argument for some of new disruptive technologies or whatever is like what separates it from something that's actually going to have an impact from something that's just sort of like low end and it's going to remain a toy. And that's why incumbents ignore it and ultimately get disrupted. I mean, so many things, but that ends up being the best experience. Yeah. I mean, I'd also push back and say that like, well, today it feels very experimental and it's just, you know, maybe a few one-off use cases. I think if you look back at previous platform shifts in commerce, what you'll see is that, for example, when Stripe started, the merchants that they were serving were very small and, you know, very long tail. And many of them have now graduated to become massive, and it's why they continue to grow. Shopify is a very similar story. I think you look at the advent of Shopify, it was people doing dropshipping and selling t-shirts, but now they service a bunch of really big brands that built their entire product on Shopify and graduated into huge businesses. And so I think very similarly, we're going to see a whole new class of developers who are very lean and small, but leverage AI to build massive companies. And the tools that they're purchasing today in this agent to commerce model is going to become very large volume over time as they graduate into bigger companies. I think the commerce take is great. The thing I'd go for is even, even larger, which is that the economic contract for the web is dead. The economic contract for the web since 2000, since Google came online and became the biggest proponent of the free and open internet was, uh, if
