# Visa Earnings Call: Q1-2023

Source: Visa IR (q4cdn.com), corrected transcript via FactSet

                                                        Corrected Transcript




26-Jan-2023

Visa, Inc. (V)
Q1 2023 Earnings Call




                                                           Total Pages: 23
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com   Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26-Jan-2023



CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Jennifer Como                                                                                                                              Vasant M. Prabhu
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                     Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, Visa, Inc.
Alfred F. Kelly, Jr.                                                                                                                       Ryan McInerney
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                             President, Visa, Inc.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................



OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Sanjay Sakhrani                                                                                                                            James E. Faucette
Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.                                                                                                     Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Darrin Peller                                                                                                                              Daniel R. Perlin
Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC                                                                                                                Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Will Nance                                                                                                                                 Harshita Rawat
Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC                                                                                                           Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC
Lisa Ellis                                                                                                                                 Kenneth Suchoski
Analyst, MoffettNathanson LLC                                                                                                              Analyst, Autonomous Research US LP
David John Koning                                                                                                                          Tien-Tsin Huang
Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc.                                                                                                       Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Ramsey El-Assal
Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26-Jan-2023



MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator: Welcome to Visa's Fiscal First Quarter 2023 Earnings Conference Call. All participants are in a listen
only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any
objections, you may disconnect at this time.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Ms. Jennifer Como, Senior Vice President and Global
Head of Investor Relations. Ms. Como, you may begin.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.
Thanks, Jordan. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Visa's Fiscal First Quarter 2023 Earnings Call.
Joining us today are Al Kelly, Visa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Vasant Prabhu, Visa's Vice Chair and
Chief Financial Officer; and Ryan McInerney, who will become the Chief Executive Officer of Visa next week.

This call is being webcast on the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.visa.com. A replay will be
archived on our site for 30 days. A slide deck containing financial and statistical highlights has been posted on our
IR website.

Let me also remind you that this presentation includes forward-looking statements. These statements are not
guarantees of future performance, and our actual results could differ materially as the results of many factors.
Additional information concerning those factors is available in our most recent reports on Form 10-K, which you
can find on the SEC's website and the Investor Relations section of our website.

For non-GAAP financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and reconciliation are
available in today's earnings release.

And with that, let me turn the call over to Al.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Alfred F. Kelly, Jr.
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Visa, Inc.
Jennifer, thank you, and good afternoon, everybody, and thank you for joining us. Visa's performance in the first
quarter of 2023 reflects stable domestic volumes and transactions and a continued recovery of cross-border
travel. Total Q1 payments volume was up 7% year-over-year or 135% versus three years ago, flat with Q4.
Excluding Russia and China, payments volume was up 12% or 146% of 2019. US Q1 payments volume was up
9% year-over-year or 144% of 2019, down 1 point from Q4. International volume, excluding Russia and China,
was up 15% or 147% of 2019, up 1 point from Q4. Q1 cross-border volumes, excluding intra-Europe, grew 31%
year-over-year and 132% versus three years ago, up 5 points from Q4. Excluding Russia, cross-border year-over-
year growth was higher by 4 points.

Travel-related cross-border volumes rose 6 points from 112% of 2019 in Q4 to 118% in Q1, driven by Asia-Pacific
helped by China (sic) [Japan] lifting restrictions, continued modest improvements inbound into the United States,
and CEMEA benefiting from the FIFA World Cup.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                   26-Jan-2023

Processed transactions were up 10% year-over-year or 139% versus 2019, and we processed 571 million
transactions a day during the quarter. Although first quarter net revenues grew – altogether, I should say, first
quarter net revenues grew 12% year-over-year and non-GAAP EPS was $2.18, up 21%.

In each of our growth levers, consumer payments, new flows, and value-added services, we saw strong revenue
growth. In our consumer payments business, we made significant progress this quarter through large deals with
traditional issuers and co-brands, and with the pandemic largely behind us, we saw many businesses focus on
payments through Visa's new flows capabilities. In addition, we continued to develop and expand our global
value-added services globally.

Now, let me explore each of these growth areas. In consumer payments, credentials grew 8% overall, 11%
excluding Russia, with strong double-digit growth in the United States, India, and Brazil. Tap-to-Pay penetration of
face-to-face transactions globally was 72%, excluding Russia and the United States. In the United States, we
surpassed a notable 30% with San Jose, San Francisco, and New York City, all above 50%. US drugstores went
above 40% for the first time in the United States, and nearly 65% of Costco's face-to-face credit transactions were
made with a tap.

In the United States, we had several important renewals. First, we renewed our partnership with Bank of America
in the United States, maintaining our current debit and credit business, including their Cash Rewards, Travel
Rewards, Premium Rewards, and newly-launched Premium Rewards Elite consumer credit cards. We're excited
to continue to invest together in the growth of our joint business and to innovate with Bank of America to deliver
enhanced capabilities and improved experiences for their customers.

Second, we renewed with Commerce Bank, a top-25 Visa US issuer across their consumer and commercial
portfolios. Finally, we also renewed our agreement with Capital One.

In Australia, we renewed our agreement with the country's largest independent payment solutions provider,
Cuscal, with over 4 million cardholders for debit and prepaid and also signed a new agreement for credit
issuance. Also in the region, we extended our exclusive relationship with Kiwibank, the largest New Zealand-
owned bank.

In Latin America, we renewed with ICBC Argentina, one of the largest issuers in the country, and with Banco do
Brasil, one of the largest Visa issuers in the region. In addition, we entered into a new agreement with one of the
largest banks in Panama, Banco Nacional de Panamá. Also in Latin America, we reached a new strategic deal
with fintech platform, Tigo Money, and parent company, Millicom, a leading provider of telecommunications
services in the region. Visa and Millicom expect to offer Tigo Money's more than 5 million wallet users the ability
to digitize their cash in an easy and secure way making purchases wherever Visa is accepted with a Visa-Tigo
Money Access Card.

Another strategic fintech deal was with Niyo in India, a fast-growing cross-border-focused neobank with 5 million
customers. We've extended our relationship from debit into credit to grow cross-border spending with affluent, as
well as corporate customers.

We're also happy to share that we renewed and extended our global partnership with HSBC. Our agreement
covers consumer and commercial and it will foster growth and digital acceleration. This deal also cuts across all of
Visa's five regions.




                                                                                                                      4
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                    Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                     26-Jan-2023

As you know, Visa is the leader in travel co-brands globally, and I'm happy to report that we recently reached
agreements with three important travel relationships.

First, Qatar Airways' Privilege Club, which today has a split portfolio across networks around the world, has
signed a new 10-year exclusive partnership with Visa to enhance and expand its portfolio of co-branded payment
initiatives with key financial partners across key markets worldwide. This expanded partnership creates a new
world of opportunities for our Visa customers and Privilege Club members to collect and spend Avios, the rewards
currency of Privilege Club.

Second, with Southwest Airlines in the United States, Visa will continue to be the exclusive payment network for
their co-brand credit card issued by JPMorgan Chase. It represents one of the largest co-brand partnerships in
the world.

Third, with Star Alliance and HSBC in Australia, this is the world's first credit card created with an airline alliance
and is issued exclusively on Visa Credit. At the time of the launch, it brought together seven Star Alliance carriers
in a single credit card platform.

Also, we recently advanced our co-brand partnership with Flipkart, one of India's leading digital commerce
entities, with a registered customer base of 450 million.

So whether it's with traditional issuers or co-brand partners, we are continuing to position Visa well for the future.

On to new flows, where this past quarter, new flows continued to grow with revenue up more than 20% in
constant dollars led by strong growth in B2B payments volume and Visa Direct transactions.

First, on the Visa Direct side, Visa Direct had 1.9 billion transactions in Q1, up 39% year-over-year excluding
Russia. We continued to grow globally. Non-US Visa Direct transactions as a percentage of total transactions
expanded nearly 20 points, excluding Russia, from Q1 2021 to Q1 2023.

Building on the success of our remittance program with Standard Chartered Bank in Hong Kong, we recently
launched Malaysia as an additional origination market extending across six currency pairs with more currencies to
come.

We also continued to bring existing use cases to new markets. First, in Australia, Visa Direct is now enabling
driver payouts with DoorDash. Second, we launched our inaugural P2P program in South Africa with FNB, one of
the country's largest banks, to enable their 10 million active customers to move money within their mobile app
using Visa Direct rails. Third, we launched our wallet cash payout program in Bangladesh with bKash. With this
launch, the nearly 65 million bKash users can make wallet to money, bank transfers (sic) [wallet to bank money
transfers] 24/7 in near real-time using Visa Direct.

We are enabling several use cases including seller payouts in the United States on Poshmark, a social media
marketplace, where more than 80 million registered users, and card top-ups with fintech GoHenry. As a follow-on
to the issuance deal we announced last quarter with them, GoHenry is enabling its members to top-up their child's
prepaid Visa card with Visa Direct first in the UK, with plans to expand this service across Europe in the future.

In addition to Visa Direct, we had noteworthy developments in the B2B space this past quarter where commercial
payments volume grew 15% in constant dollars. In traditional issuance, we signed an agreement with Raiffeisen




                                                                                                                         5
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                     Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                               Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                     26-Jan-2023

Bank for a new commercial credit partnership in addition to renewing consumer credit across their 3 million clients
in Austria.

And in the United States, we renewed with UBS for consumer credit and debit as well as several business credit
portfolios and Visa Spend Clarity for Business.

Another issuing partnership was with Stone, one of the largest acquirers in Brazil focused on small businesses.
Stone has recently become a Visa debit and credit issuer of cards that could be embedded digitally in its wallet.

On the virtual card front, for accounts receivable and payable, we completed several agreements. First, Divvy, an
expense management platform owned by BILL has renewed its agreement to offer Visa virtual cards for small and
midsized businesses in the United States as part of its expense and vendor payment solutions.

Second, Viewpost converts US-based B2B check payments to Visa virtual cards, and together, we are expanding
card opportunities for issuers and corporates by offering a solution that could be deployed easily to every
commercial business that still produces checks.

Third, we've reached an agreement with Plate IQ, a leading end-to-end accounts payable automation provider in
the United States, with direct integrations to accounting systems. Plate IQ will be offering a Visa virtual card
solution to commercial partners across multiple industries, including restaurants and hospitality, retail, and
accounting and bookkeeping, among others.

Fourth, in our Asia-Pacific region, SUNRATE, a global payment and treasury management platform, has launched
Visa virtual cards as part of its solution for more than a thousand B2B clients, including global online travel
agencies and small business customers.

Fleet issuance continues to grow as well. This quarter, we signed with XXImo, a European fleet and mobility
solutions provider, to issue Visa Open Loop fleet and fuel commercial cards as they expand from three European
markets to 10.

In the United States, Highnote, a cloud-native card issuance embedded finance platform, expanded its
relationship with Visa with a five-year card issuance agreement across credit, debit, virtual solutions, and fleet. In
addition, Highnote became certified as a Visa fleet card processor, which provides businesses with more specific
product category level controls and more detailed and faster data for real-time decisions on new fleet and fuel
card programs.

B2B is an active space for fintechs, and Visa continues to partner with new players to drive innovation for
businesses. A recent example is Konfio, a fintech in Mexico, that has already issued approximately 50,000 Visa
Small Business cards and recently expanded its agreement to issue Visa Business Infinite cards. In addition, they
are positioned to grow acceptance in the market with their newly established acquiring business, Sr.Pago.

Now moving to value-added services, which had about $1.7 billion in revenue this first quarter, up more than 20%
in constant dollars. Remember that our focus for value-added services is threefold.

One, to deepen client penetration of existing products; two, to build and launch new solutions; and, three, to
expand geographically.




                                                                                                                     6
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                     Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                     26-Jan-2023

CyberSource is a great example on all three areas of focus. First, on deepening client penetration of existing
products. CyberSource's Decision Manager offering provides fraud capabilities to existing CyberSource clients
and has experienced strong growth throughout the pandemic, more than doubling transactions in the last three
years. In Q1, transactions utilizing Decision Manager grew in the low-teens year-over-year, demonstrating the
continued demand for this solution even as we enter a post-pandemic environment.

Another area of growth we have mentioned is with acquirers who utilize CyberSource's capabilities to offer them
to their merchant clients. In Q1, we signed agreements with several acquirers for gateway services, including
Elavon in North America.

In Saudi Arabia, Saudi British Bank has announced a strategic partnership with our CyberSource payment
gateway and risk platform to enhance the overall capabilities of SABB's payment gateway with the aim of
fostering the bank's growth in an evolving and dynamic e-commerce space.

On extended geographically, we've continued our efforts to strengthen our global presence. Our non-US
CyberSource transactions have nearly quadrupled since the first quarter of 2019 and they now comprise the
majority of our transactions, led in particular by the Asia-Pacific region.

CyberSource has also created new offerings. While historically CyberSource has been an e-commerce capability,
over the past few years, we have accelerated the product development of our card-present and omni-channel
offerings including with the acquisition of Payworks back in 2019. In the past quarter, we saw nearly 50% year-
over-year increase in card-present authorized CyberSource transactions.

Other value-added services highlights this quarter include our innovative dispute capability through Verifi, which
saw nearly 40% growth in cases processed this quarter as we expanded globally with more than one-third of our
cases from outside of North America. This rapid dispute resolution solution automatically resolves disputes
between merchants and issuers through the acquirer rails, reducing the average time to resolve a dispute from 24
days to typically seconds.

And Tink, our open banking platform, continued to deepen and develop relationships across Europe. Tink recently
signed a master agreement with BNP Paribas to be their main open banking and money movement services
provider for millions of customers across Europe. Tink is already live with several businesses in the group. 3
million customers use Tink's money management, data enrichment, and transactions product at BNP Paribas
Fortis in Belgium and BNL in Italy.

Tink has also renewed and expanded its commit with ABN Amro to integrate Tink's Money Manager and Data
Enrichment products into the bank's app for more than 3 million customers.

In conclusion, in the first quarter, Visa delivered very strong results and continued to effectively execute our
growth strategy. Vasant will go into detail on our thoughts for the rest of the year, but I'd like to make a few other
brief closing comments.

We will continue to manage our business for the medium- to long-term and will invest in initiatives that are
compelling and will provide future growth, all while being very mindful of the current environment. I continue to
see a bright future for Visa as we look ahead to the rest of this year and beyond, and I believe we have the right
strategy to continue to deliver great results.




                                                                                                                         7
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                     Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26-Jan-2023

As we announced in November, effective February 1, 2023, I'll be stepping down as CEO and assuming the full
time role as Executive Chairman. I'm exceedingly grateful to the board and leadership of Visa in addition to all of
our passionate 26,500 employee colleagues who helped make this job so rewarding. I'm proud of all that we have
accomplished together since I started in 2016.

Ryan McInerney will become Visa's CEO, and I cannot think of a finer leader to continue to position Visa at the
center of money movement in increasingly innovative ways. I've worked side-by-side with Ryan for almost 6.5
years. He knows our business, our clients, and he is deeply respected by our employees. He and his team will do
a great job, and I expect this transition to be totally seamless.

With that in mind, and as Jennifer alluded to, I've asked Ryan to join the Q&A portion of our call today. But before
that, let me hand it over to Vasant to provide financial highlights for the quarter and our thoughts on the second
quarter and beyond.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Vasant M. Prabhu
Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, Visa, Inc.
Thank you, Al. Good afternoon, everyone. Our fiscal first quarter results reflect sustained growth in domestic
spending and continued recovery in cross-border travel. Net revenues were up 12%, GAAP EPS up 8%, non-
GAAP EPS was up 21%.

The strong dollar dragged down reported net revenue growth by almost 3 points and non-GAAP EPS growth by
approximately 3.5 points. Discontinuation of operations in Russia reduced net revenue growth by about 4.5
points. Adjusted for Russia, net revenues were up almost 20% in constant dollars.

Net revenue growth exceeded our expectations as value-added services and new flows growth were very strong,
currency volatility stayed high, and client incentives were lower than anticipated.

A few key highlights. In constant dollars, global payments volume was up 7% year-over-year and 35% above
2019. Excluding China and adjusted for Russia, global payments volume was up 12% year-over-year and 46%
higher than 2019.

US payments volume was up 9% year-over-year and 44% over 2019. In constant dollars, international payments
volume, excluding China and Russia, was up 15% year-over-year and 47% above 2019.

US holiday spending growth was in the high-single digits on a year-over-year basis and up more than 41% versus
2019. E-commerce maintained its share of retail spending versus last year, up over 5 points since 2019.
Spending continues to smooth out over the holiday season with Black Friday and Cyber Monday still significant
shopping days, but less important post-pandemic. Holiday spending around the globe was generally consistent
with US trends.

The cross-border travel recovery continues. However, as expected, the pace of recovery has moderated as most
borders are now open, including Japan in October and now China in January. As a reminder, we saw a very
sharp cross-border travel recovery in October and November of 2021, which we are lapping.

Indexed to 2019, cross-border travel volume, excluding transactions within Europe, rose 6 points in the first
quarter versus a 20-point gain in the third quarter of fiscal year 2022 and 10 points in the fourth quarter of fiscal
year 2022.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                    26-Jan-2023

New flows and value-added services revenue sustained robust growth in excess of 20% in constant dollars.

In the first quarter of fiscal year 2023, we bought back approximately $3.1 billion in stock at an average price of
$198.74. Contributions to the litigation escrow account, which have the same effect as a stock buyback, added
another $350 million. We also distributed $945 million in dividends.

Now, onto the details. In the US, credit grew 10% year-over-year and 35% over 2019, lapping the credit recovery
from last year and as compared sequentially to last quarter, impacted by retail spending and fuel prices.

US debit grew 8%, up sequentially over last quarter. Relative to 2019, debit grew 55%, sustaining significantly
above the pre-COVID trend line even as credit has recovered.

US card-present spend grew 8% year-over-year impacted by fuel prices and retail spend as compared
sequentially to last quarter. US card-present spend was 26% above 2019. US card-not-present volume excluding
travel grew 9% year-over-year and was 65% higher than 2019.

E-commerce spend remains well above the pre-COVID trend line even as card-present spending has recovered.

On the international front, in constant dollars, Latin America was up 25% year-over-year and 107% higher than
2019. Our CEMEA region, excluding Russia, grew 25% year-over-year and was 108% higher than 2019, as we
saw all through FY 2022, growth in both regions was fueled by client wins, cash digitization, and acceptance
expansion.

Europe was up 10% year-over-year and 34% higher than 2019, impacted by a portfolio conversion that is now
nearly complete in the UK. Ex UK, Europe volumes grew 28% year-over-year and were 71% above 2019,
reflecting share gains in multiple markets. Ex portfolio conversion, volume trends in the UK remain stable.

Asia-Pacific, excluding, China continued to recover, up 16% year-over-year and 34% above 2019. Global
processed transactions were up 10% year-over-year and 39% over 2019 levels.

Constant dollar cross-border volumes, excluding transactions within Europe, but including Russia in prior periods,
were up 31% year-over-year and 32% over 2019. Excluding Russia, year-over-year growth was higher by about 4
points.

Cross-border card-not-present volume growth, excluding travel and excluding intra-Europe, grew 3% year-over-
year and was 55% above 2019. Adjusted for cryptocurrency purchases and Russia, cross-border e-commerce
spending grew in the low-double digits.

Cross-border card-not-present, excluding travel, represented over 40% of total cross-border volume in the first
quarter. Cross-border travel spend, excluding intra-Europe, grew 63% year-over-year and is now 18% above
2019. The cross-border travel, excluding Europe, indexed to 2019 went from 114% in September to 121% in
December.

Travel in and out of Asia recovered sharply in the quarter by more than 12 points from the mid-70s indexed to
2019 to 85% for outbound and more than 90% for inbound helped by Japan. Japan alone improved by about 50
points since opening its borders in October. With China lifting restrictions on January 8, we expect more recovery
to come.




                                                                                                                      9
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                    Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                             Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                  26-Jan-2023

Europe inbound and outbound remains strong with the travel indexed to 2019 in the 120s for outbound and 130s
for inbound, both up slightly from the fourth quarter. Travel outbound from the US to all geographies continued to
be strong in the low-140s indexed to 2019, up 6 points from the fourth quarter. Travel inbound to the US
approached 2019 levels and improved 4 points in the quarter likely due to the weakening dollar.

Travel into Latin America and the Caribbean remained very strong and stable indexing around 150% to 2019
levels. Travel in and out of CEMEA indexed in the 130s and mid-120s, respectively, relative to 2019, with
outbound up more than 10 points in the quarter and inbound by more than 15 points helped by the FIFA World
Cup.

Finally, some color on Mainland China post the removal of COVID zero policies. The 40-day Spring Festival
season is underway in Mainland China, the world's largest travel event. Domestic travel is rising sharply. From a
revenue standpoint, this will not contribute much. In terms of outbound Mainland Chinese travel, this will pick up
steam as more flight capacity is available, ticket prices moderate, new passports and visas are obtained, and
restrictions are lifted in some corridors.

The initial destinations for Mainland Chinese visitors look to be Hong Kong and Southeast Asia, in particular,
Thailand, Singapore, and Malaysia. Inbound travel to Mainland China has not increased much and may not until
the COVID situation settles down.

Moving now to a quick review of first quarter financial results, service revenues grew 10% versus the 10% growth
in fourth quarter constant dollar payments volume. Exchange rate drag was offset by growth from business mix,
pricing, and card benefits.

Data processing revenues grew 6% versus the 10% processed transactions growth. The primary reason is that
our data processing revenues are impacted by Russia; however, our transactions growth is not. Adjusted for
Russia, data processing revenues were up 10%.

International transaction revenues were up 29% versus the 31% increase in constant dollar cross-border
volumes, excluding intra-Europe. Revenue growth was helped by high currency volatility, although lower in the
fourth quarter, and pricing actions which were offset by exchange rate shifts.

Other revenues grew 31% led by marketing and consulting services, pricing actions, and acquisitions. Client
incentives were 26% of gross revenues, below expectations due to some adjustments based on client
performance and other items.

For the year, we expect to renew about 20% of our payments volume with a good amount already completed in
the first quarter.

Revenue growth was robust across our three growth engines. Consumer payments growth was led by the
recovery in cross-border volume, high currency volatility, and continued strong domestic volumes and
transactions. New flows revenue growth was over 20% in constant dollars. Commercial card volumes grew 15%
year-over-year and are up 45% versus 2019. Excluding Russia, Visa Direct transactions grew 39%.

Value-added services revenue was also up over 20% in constant dollars driven by higher volume, increased client
penetration, and select pricing actions. Currencycloud and Tink added about 0.5 point to revenue growth.




                                                                                                                10
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                   Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                               Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                    26-Jan-2023

GAAP operating expenses grew 25%. Non-GAAP operating expenses grew 15%. Non-GAAP operating expense
growth was higher than expected primarily due to a smaller exchange rate benefit. The primary drivers of expense
growth were personnel costs from hiring activity in the second half of last year and into the first quarter, as well as
G&A expenses driven by lower exchange rate benefits, higher travel, and expenses from new acquisitions.

Marketing increased 18% primarily driven by the FIFA World Cup spend and client marketing.

We recorded losses from our equity investments of $106 million. Excluding investment losses, non-GAAP non-
operating expense was $7 million benefiting from higher interest income due to rising rates and some other items.

Our tax rate was lower than expected due to the resolution of a tax initiative coming in at 16% GAAP and 16.5%
non-GAAP. GAAP EPS was $1.99. Non-GAAP EPS was $2.18, up 21% over last year, inclusive of an
approximately 3.5 point drag from the stronger dollar.

Through the first three weeks of February (sic) [January], business trends have remained strong and stable. On a
year-over-year basis, US payments volume was up 14%, with debit up 13% and credit up 14%. Lapping of
Omicron-related weakness from last year has contributed to strong January month to date growth. The Omicron-
related uptick will fade as we get into February. These trends are generally consistent with performance in major
markets around the world.

Processed transactions grew 14% year-over-year. Constant dollar cross-border volume, excluding transactions
within Europe, grew 36% year-over-year and was 42% over 2019 and 32% over 2020. Card-not-present non-
travel growth was 75% above 2019 and 52% above 2020. Travel-related cross-border volumes were 25% above
2019 and 20% above 2020.

We are now past the pandemic recovery stage on domestic volumes and transactions. As such, starting next
quarter, we will no longer provide comparisons to 2019 for payments volumes and processed transactions. Since
the cross-border recovery is still ongoing, we will continue to provide comparisons to 2019 for cross-border
volumes through this calendar year.

Moving now to our outlook for the second quarter, for the second quarter, we are assuming that trends in
domestic payments volumes and processed transactions are sustained with some benefit from lapping Omicron in
January last year. As a reminder, discontinuation of operations in Russia will impact reported payments volume
growth rates in the second quarter. Russia will not impact reported processed transactions growth.

Cross-border e-commerce trends have been stable too, especially when you adjust for Russia and crypto-related
volatility. We're assuming cross-border e-commerce growth rates sustain through the second quarter ex Russia
and crypto.

The cross-border travel recovery continued generally in line with our expectations in the first quarter. We're
assuming recent trends to sustain into the second quarter. We expect most of the Mainland China travel recovery
in the second half and beyond for reasons I outlined earlier. We expect outbound travel from Mainland China to
recover first. The pace of inbound travel recovery will depend on the COVID situation.

Discontinuation of operations in Russia will reduce second quarter net revenue growth by almost 5 points since
we recorded nearly two quarters' worth of service fees in the second quarter of fiscal year 2022.




                                                                                                                   11
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                     Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                      26-Jan-2023

Based on where the dollar is today and the forward curve, exchange rates will reduce reported net revenue
growth in the second quarter by about 2 points.

When you put all this together, our planning assumptions get us to mid-teens constant dollar net revenue growth
in the second quarter on a run rate basis, i.e., adjusted for Russia. With an almost 5-point Russia impact and a 2-
point exchange rate headwind, reported nominal dollar Q2 net revenue growth would be in the high-single digits.

Client incentives were below our 26.5% to 27.5% range of gross revenues in the first quarter. Second quarter
client incentives are expected to run higher at the upper end of the range, finishing the first half in the middle of
the range.

As we indicated in October, operating expenses growth rates will moderate through the year as we reduce the
rate of increase, as well as lap higher levels from last year. In the second quarter, non-GAAP operating expense
growth in nominal dollars is expected to be 2 to 3 points lower than the first quarter expense growth. Our third
quarter non-GAAP operating expense growth rate is expected to decline an additional 2 to 3 points, with a further
2 to 3 point reduction in the fourth quarter.

Non-GAAP results exclude certain acquisition-related items and the litigation provision from the third quarter last
year.

We currently expect non-GAAP non-operating expense to be in the $40 million to $50 million range in the second
quarter, driven largely by higher interest income from our cash balances.

Our tax rate is expected to be at the upper end of the 19% to 19.5% range for the rest of the year. With a non-
GAAP 16.5% rate in the first quarter, the full year non-GAAP tax rate is now expected to range between 18.5% to
19%.

As we said last quarter, should there be a recession or a geopolitical shock that impacts our business slowing
revenue growth below our planning assumptions in the second half, we will, of course, adjust our spending plans
by reprioritizing investments, scaling back or delaying programs, and pulling back as appropriate in personnel
expenses, marketing spend, travel, and other controllable categories. In a business like ours, this always requires
a careful balance between short- and long-term considerations. We have contingency plans in place and will
activate them should we need to.

Our business has been resilient so far this year. Our first quarter performance has demonstrated strong consumer
payments growth from cash digitization and client wins. New flows and value-added services momentum remains
very strong. There is still much uncertainty from an economic standpoint in the months ahead. We will remain
vigilant and ready to act.

As we look past fiscal year 2023, we remain as optimistic as we've ever been about the long-term growth potential
of our business.

Before I finish, this is a sad day for me personally. It's Al's last week as CEO. Al has been the best CEO I've
worked for, and I've worked for many in my career. Al is a wonderful human being, an exceptional leader, with
extraordinary business judgment. It has been an eventful six years. Despite a three-year global pandemic,
revenues have almost doubled, non-GAAP EPS is up over 2.5 times, and our stock price has tripled during Al's
tenure. I will miss you as CEO, Al, along with 26,500 or so others at Visa.




                                                                                                                    12
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                      Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26-Jan-2023

With that, I'll turn this back to Jennifer.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.
Thanks, Vasant. And with that, we're ready to take questions, Jordan.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................



QUESTION AND ANSWER SECTION
Operator: [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani with KBW. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Sanjay Sakhrani
Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Q
Thanks, and congratulations to Al and Ryan as well. Vasant, as we think about your baseline plan forecasts, how
are you factoring in the economy? I mean, are we assuming a resilient consumer, a stable economy, or are you
assuming some mild downturn?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Vasant M. Prabhu
Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
Well, We went through what we called our planning assumption last – on the last call for the full year, and we told
you we had assumed no recession. As you can see, business trends have been remarkably stable. The spend
levels just around the world, they've indexed at – in the mid-140s for almost four quarters right now. And there's
no evidence of a change in trend. That's reflected in our second quarter outlook. At this point, we're not changing
any expectations for the second half. I mean, clearly the dollar has weakened a bit, so that will change the
exchange rate impact in the second half. But we're not changing any of our views in the second half. I mean, they
are planning assumptions, and if there is a slowdown, then we will react accordingly.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Sanjay Sakhrani
Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Q
Great. Thank you.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question, Jordan.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from Darrin Peller with Wolfe Research. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Darrin Peller
Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Q
Hey, guys. So it's nice to see that – it seems like from the trends you're seeing in Q1 and what you're guiding for
Q2, it's an element of conservatism based on the trends so far relative to what we could see in the second half,
which I think is what the Street probably wanted. But when we look – just think about the underlying trends for a
moment, I mean, some of the strength we're seeing like debit being up still high single digits, constant currency in
the US on really tough comps combined with other services, maybe you could just touch on what's the driving
forces of both of those metrics, because they're a little better than what we thought. And I don't know if it's Visa


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26-Jan-2023

Direct and the debit side helping or it's other factors and share. And then if you can comment on other revenue
also strength. Thanks again, guys.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Vasant M. Prabhu
Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
Yeah, on debit, it's what we told you earlier. In general, if you look at – looking at 2019 has kept us, honest, so to
speak, it's a good view of what's going on. And there's – in total spend, it's remarkable stability. What's happening
is as good spending slowed down a bit, services spending really took up all the slack. And so, consumers have
just shifted their spending, but they're spending the same amount. And that's why debit has stayed resilient.

Debit has been the biggest beneficiary of the move to digitization that happened globally and including in the US.
More e-commerce, more Tap to Pay, more people using digital credentials just about in – on any payment
application. So some people were worried that when things settle down, that debit might start to see some
slowdown. But as you've seen, debit has stayed resilient even as credit has recovered, which has kept our overall
payment volumes very stable. Those would be the big trends.

And the other question -
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Other revenue.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Vasant M. Prabhu
Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
And other revenue was helped by mostly marketing services and consulting revenue. A fair amount of that linked
to the FIFA World Cup. There was a lot of client-related marketing and spending related to the World Cup. Clients
asked us to activate a variety of programs, and that certainly helped other revenues.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question, Jordan.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from Will Nance with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Will Nance
Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q
Hey, guys. Thanks for taking the question. I wanted to kind of double-click on some of the comments you made
around China. It sounds like you guys are looking towards that region as being a fairly big driver of continued
recovery and cross-border travel. I think we heard this morning from your competitor that those volumes in
aggregate seem to only be something like 1% to 2% of overall cross-border volumes pre-COVID. So was
wondering given how much of a focus this is for investors as a driver of continued strong growth, can you put
some guardrails around how we should be thinking about the magnitude of the impact of China once it's fully
reopened relative to kind of what we saw in the most recent quarter? Thanks.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Alfred F. Kelly, Jr.
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26-Jan-2023

Will, a couple things. First, our numbers are fairly close to those of our competitor. We are – as Vasant said, we
really think that first we're going to see the travel being outbound from China to Southeast Asia. I think it's going to
be still a bit of time before we're going to see the Chinese traveler back in Europe at the level of pre-pandemic or
back in the United States at the level of pre-pandemic.

And I think it's going to – people are going to wait and see what's happening with COVID within China. So Vasant
talked about the fact that we're not counting on any kind of recovery back inbound into China into the second half
of the year. But my personal expectation is that we'll see probably a spread of three to five quarters before –
starting in the second half before China gets back to a level of pre-pandemic or 2019.

So it is – for us, it's – we have built our plan around pretty much what Vasant said in his remarks and what I just
said. And if China comes back faster than what we're saying, then obviously that will help us. If it comes back
slower, it will have that as the opposite impact.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Vasant M. Prabhu
Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
Yeah, in terms of thinking about the impact, you all and we all have been tracking how is our cross-border
recovering relative to pre-COVID levels, and are we back on the trend line and so on, as you know. And we've
told you now for a few quarters that many corridors and I went through a lot of that are well above the 2019 level.
The three that were not and are still not, US is approaching – US inbound is approaching 2019 levels. It was held
back by the strong dollar. But Asia is still, and I went through the numbers, quite a bit below 2019 levels. Most of
Asia is open, only China isn't. So if Asia is going to get back to pre-COVID levels and back to the original trend
line, that's where the China impact is going to be visible.

And then you expect and we expect cross-border – that cross-border travel index to keep improving through the
year. For that to happen, we obviously need China to come back. So, it is important.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question, Jordan.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from Lisa Ellis with SVB MoffettNathanson. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Lisa Ellis
Analyst, MoffettNathanson LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Q
Hey, good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. I had a question about the evolution of Visa Direct. You
highlighted the plus-39% year-on-year growth ex Russia in the quarter. Over the last few years, you've been
talking a lot with Tap to Pay and contactless about there being sort of this inflection point dynamic where you
reach a certain level of critical mass and then growth really accelerates. Is a similar dynamic true for Visa Direct,
and can you give us a sense for sort of how we should think about that evolve over the next couple of years?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Alfred F. Kelly, Jr.
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
Well, I think, Lisa, you're absolutely right. We're focused in Visa Direct at this point on extending into new
geographies, new use cases, and more cross-border. I would say those are our focuses.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26-Jan-2023

Initially out of the chute, Visa Direct in a country goes through Phase 1 which tends to be P2P before you then get
into things like gig economy payouts and transactions like remittances or insurance payments, those kinds of
things. So in the United States – and every country is going to go through this kind of evolution where they'll start
with P2P, get into things like gig economy payouts, and then get into more sophisticated – and remittances and
then more sophisticated use cases. And the United States is much further along that continuum.

In other countries, we have made some good progress kind of in that first phase or two, but haven't gotten into
more sophisticated use cases. And then in other geographies, frankly, we're still not there.

So I think there's a tremendous amount of gas left in the tank in Visa Direct when I look at the opportunities to
take use cases to a more sophisticated levels in more markets, to open up more markets, and to put a real focus
on cross-border Visa Direct transactions which will have better yields to them as well.

So I think your bottom line theory of your question is – has some real legitimacy to it. Although I would say that it
will be probably a bit longer elevation – a bit longer period of time before you reach maturity simply because of the
different amount of use cases whereas Tap to Pay is really kind of a single type of initiative.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question, Jordan.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from Dave Koning with Baird. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

David John Koning
Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Q
Yeah, hey, guys. Thanks, and good job. I guess my question, rest of world debit is the one place where I guess
numbers were a little weaker than we had thought, negative 2% constant currency. Is that just a function of
portfolio de-conversions, Russia, some of the one-off things, and when does that kind of inflect back into positive
territory?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Alfred F. Kelly, Jr.
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
I think, Dave, when you look at it ex China and ex Russia, it grew over 10%. And then, yes, the UK migrations in
particular are happening at a faster pace than we thought. And as Vasant said in his remarks, they're almost fully
migrated. So certainly that is having a dragging impact on the growth as well.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question, Jordan.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from Ramsey El-Assal with Barclays. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Ramsey El-Assal
Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Q
Hi. Thank you for taking my question tonight. Al, could you give us your latest thoughts on sort of balance sheet
deployment M&A strategy, what you might be looking for, whether this environment is yielding more potential


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26-Jan-2023

opportunities or deals, or is it time maybe to not pursue additional deals as the macro environment remains
volatile?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Alfred F. Kelly, Jr.
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
Nothing has changed in our strategy. We're focused first and foremost on organic growth and then growing
through M&A and then from there, dividend and share buybacks in that order.

Clearly, there's been a little bit of a burst of the balloon in terms of some of the valuations in particular in the
fintech world. That is a – that's a helpful characteristic of the environment right now, but I think we will continue to
look for capabilities and management teams that would bring more value to Visa than we could bring to ourselves
organically. And we're in constant evaluation of options. We have a very good corporate development team. It's
something that Ryan and Vasant in particular spend a good deal of time on. And when we see something that we
think will make us better as a company and has a fair value attached to it, we're not afraid to go after it.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question, Jordan.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from James Faucette with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

James E. Faucette
Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Q
Thank you very much, and thanks for all the work and effort, Al, over time. And I wanted to address kind of a
bigger-picture question for you and maybe for Ryan is that, one of the questions we get a lot from investors is,
how do we think about kind of the challenges as we eventually reach some level of maturation of card
penetration, especially in the US and developed markets, and especially given some of the preferences we've
seen in other countries for them to develop domestic schemes, or at least, favor domestic schemes? So just
wondering if you can provide a little bit of reflection on what we've seen thus far, and maybe, Ryan, some ideas
on how we should think about kind of maturation and expansion issues going forward.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Alfred F. Kelly, Jr.
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
So, I'll start, and then certainly Ryan can add. First, I would say that I believe deeply that there is tremendous
opportunity in the card, traditional card world, both in the consumer space, as well as in the B2B space. There is
still hundreds and hundreds of millions of people to bring into the financial mainstream. There are still trillions of
dollars spent on cash and checks. And when you look in the B2B space, we see a total addressable market of
about $120 billion across carded opportunities, cross-border and payables and receivables where I talked a
bunch about a number of examples that we have worked on over the course of the last quarter.

RTP systems are helping to digitize money movement. That's a good thing. If you look at the disruption caused by
monetization in India, it ended up being extraordinarily positive in terms of what it's done in terms of growth in
card credentials, as well as acceptance, which by the way, I also should have said in the traditional world, there's
still a tremendous opportunity to grow our acceptance footprint from the level that it's at today.

These RTP systems are also helping us and we're leaning into them. They're helping us extend the reach of Visa
Direct as we utilize them as part of our network-of-networks strategies. They're helping us with open banking

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             17
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26-Jan-2023

through Tink where we can facilitate greater access to more developers on one end and more financial institutions
on the other end. I think RTPs represent an opportunity for us to sell value-added services and I still think the
advantages of and the capabilities associated with the carded space are still far superior to account to account,
the consumer protections, et cetera.

And if you look at Pix in Brazil, you look at UPI in India, these things developed and were put in the marketplace
and we're seeing a fair amount of – and hearing a lot from clients in terms of fraud associated with these
networks. And in many ways, that makes sense. They haven't spent the decades and hundreds of millions of
dollars that Visa has to build security, fraud capability, risk management capabilities that help keep the ecosystem
secure and trusted by consumers.

And I think we have the opportunity over time in the A to A space to bring some of those capabilities and earn
some good revenue and yield from them.

So, Ryan, what would you add or delete?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Ryan McInerney
President, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A
Not a lot to add to that, Al. It's great. And, I mean, James, just in short, we still see a ton of runway. We love our
products, we love our people, we love our brand, we love our position in all these markets, whether they're mature
or emerging around the world. So tons of runway.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Daniel R. Perlin
Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q
Thanks. Hey, Al, I just wanted to ask a question about how – when you look at the new business that you've won,
let's say, in the past 12, maybe even 18 months or so, how that kind of sets Visa up as we think about the next – I
would say, the next two years, not really much beyond that? But – and the question really here is, is it tilting to
take advantage more of debit trends, credit trends, global hospitality? And I'm kind of asking because Mastercard
kind of called it out this morning as they're positioning in travel, and it sounds like you were also kind of hinting at
some positioning for your business. So, I would just be interested to know what that new business pipeline that
you brought in suggests over the course of the next two years for your company. Thank you.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Alfred F. Kelly, Jr.
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
I'd say a couple of things, Dan. Number one, on the travel front, it's been a focus for us for a long time. And I think
we have about 650 co-brands around the world. Many of them are travel co-brands. And I think we're the leading
co-brand player on the planet.

I think that when I look around the world, there's certainly opportunities with traditional issuers. We've made a lot
of inroads in markets like Brazil and Chile, the Netherlands, Germany, Japan, over the past year. We've had



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             18
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26-Jan-2023

some great renewals in the United States over the last couple of years from JPMorgan Chase to Wells to the
ones I talked about today in terms of Bank of America, Cap One, Commerce Bank.

But we've also made great inroads with fintechs and neobanks. We have had a great track record of wins in the
last 24 to 36 months. And a lot of these people are getting to be – to scale in their particular markets. And I think
for us, we have to have a wider lens in terms of who can provide services. We're trying to get our – make sure we
have – get Visa cards in as many wallets as we can around the world.

And then I'm going to come back to acceptance. One of the great ways to continue to grow our business is to
grow our acceptance footprint, which still requires a lot of growth around the world. One of the places we've
concentrated on that in the last year-and-a-half is Latin America. And if you look at the ratio of spending in Latin
America that went from – moved from cash to PV in the last couple of years, back in – in full year 2020, only 46%
of Latin America's volume was PV, with 54% being cash. This past quarter we just finished, 59% of their PV –
69% of their volume was purchase volume. So there was a 13-point swing in the Latin America region in the last
not even quite three years. And that's a combination of winning with traditional FIs, winning with fintechs, having a
localized market-by-market approach with a lot of really good progress in countries in Latin America like Brazil
and Chile.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question, Jordan.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from Harshita Rawat with Bernstein. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Harshita Rawat
Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Q
Thank you. Al, best wishes to you and we'll miss hearing from you on these calls. Ryan, congratulations. Can you
talk about how this growth strategy and organization will evolve under your leadership? Are you planning to focus
more or less on certain things, or do some things differently? And, Vasant, very quickly, can you comment on the
decel from your fourth fiscal quarter to 1Q? You talked about some of the dynamics, but how is that relative to
your initial expectations? Thank you.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Alfred F. Kelly, Jr.
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
Harshita, I don't think we got the second half of your question.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Yeah.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Alfred F. Kelly, Jr.
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
Because maybe we can knock that off and then Ryan can start.

[indiscernible] (00:59:50)
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             19
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26-Jan-2023

Vasant M. Prabhu
Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
I think you were asking about – you said decel. I'm assuming you meant deceleration...
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Harshita Rawat
Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Q
Yes.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Vasant M. Prabhu
Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
...between the first and the second. Yeah, I mean it's just a couple of things. The Russia impact is a little larger in
the second quarter because we had almost two quarters' worth of service fees last year. Remember, we
recognize service fees with a lag. So the service fees recognized in the first quarter were based on Q4 growth
rates. So sequentially, Q1 was a little lower. So Q2 service fees will be impacted by that.

Also, country volatility is moderating as we speak. It has been moderating for a few weeks. And incentive growth
is a little higher as you saw. So, you put all together, we were a little better than we expected. As you know, we
thought we would be high-single digits in the first quarter. We were higher for the reasons I mentioned. We'll be
high-single digits in the second quarter. That's our expectation right now.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Alfred F. Kelly, Jr.
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
Ryan?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Ryan McInerney
President, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A
Yeah, and on the first part of your question, I've been our President now for close to 10 years. So, I've been
shoulder-to-shoulder with Al and Vasant and the rest of our team as we've made all of our key decisions, as we've
developed our strategy, as we've executed our strategy. So probably won't or shouldn't surprise you, I'm going to
continue to focus on the three growth pillars that we've laid out, consumer payments, new payment flows, and
value-added services.

And my priorities are going to be focused on doing everything that we can to accelerate our progress and
accelerate our momentum. So how do we go to market, how do we work with clients, how do we ship product
faster, how do we sell solutions more effectively to our clients?

And to part of your question, how do we organize? So earlier this month, I announced a new organizational
structure that really reflects our strategy that we talk with all of you about all the time. And we believe it's going to
help us accelerate our progress in all three of those growth vectors.

To give you a quick sketch of that, Oliver Jenkyn, a long-time Visa veteran who many of you know, is going to
lead a new Global Markets organization that includes driving our consumer payments growth in all of our markets
around the world. So our five Regional Presidents will report to Oliver.

Chris Newkirk, who formerly led our strategy organization, is going to lead our New Flows business unit reporting
directly to me. Antony Cahill, who is our former Deputy CEO of Europe, is going to lead our Value-Added Services


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26-Jan-2023

business unit reporting directly to me. So our Global Markets team, our Value-Added Services business unit, our
New Flows business unit, all will report directly to me.

And then just to round that out a little bit, Jack Forestell, who also many of you know, will become our Chief
Product and Strategy Officer and will partner closely with our President of Technology, Rajat Taneja, and the two
of them are focused on delivering a robust product and innovation roadmap, shipping world-class products and
services that help our clients grow their businesses and deepen their relationships with their customers. So that
gives you a sense of where we are with strategy and the organization.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question, Jordan.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Harshita Rawat
Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Q
Great. Thank you.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from Ken Suchoski with Autonomous Research. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Kenneth Suchoski
Analyst, Autonomous Research US LP                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Q
Hi. Good evening, everyone. Thanks for taking the question, and congrats to Al and Ryan. I think you mentioned
earlier that you're keeping the second half guidance unchanged. Could you just remind us what that guidance was
from either a volume or net revenue standpoint just because I think we have only the prior kind of full-year
guidance, and I know there's FX that's becoming less of a headwind as you get into the second half? Thank you.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Vasant M. Prabhu
Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
Yeah, when we talked to you last quarter, we said for the full year, revenue growth would be somewhere in the
mid-teens on a constant-dollar basis adjusted for Russia. And then when you adjust for Russia and you adjust for
a full year impact at that time of about 2 points (sic) [4 points] on FX, it was going to be high-single digits in
nominal dollars.

And so you know sort of where we are in Q1 and Q2, and exchange rates have moved around some, so you can
do some of the math. We're basically not changing any views on the second half right now because trends have
been still fairly stable. The only thing you might want to change is what the exchange rate impact in the second
half might be based on where rates are right now.

I also gave you a fairly clear operating expense expectations. We were at about 15% growth in the first quarter.
We said growth will be 2 to 3 points lower in nominal dollar terms in the second quarter, another 2 to 3 points
lower in the third quarter and another 2 to 3 points lower in the fourth quarter. And that reflects what we had said
last quarter that is expense growth will moderate through the year, both as we moderate the rate of increase, but
also as we lap higher levels of expenses from last year.

So those pretty much are the sort of the broad outlines of what we said last quarter. And then we'll update you
once again on our next call with any changes we might have based on trends.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             21
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26-Jan-2023

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Last question, Jordan.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our final question comes from Tien-Tsin Huang with JPMorgan. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Tien-Tsin Huang
Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q
Hey. Thanks so much and congrats to Al and Ryan. Excited for both of you. On the renewal front and new deal
front, I'll ask on that, if you don't mind. Any call-outs on pricing, contract requirements, that kind of thing? I know
you had named a bunch of big names on the renewal front. Mastercard talked about the Citizens win there. Just
curious what's happening in the whole balance of trade area. Thanks.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Alfred F. Kelly, Jr.
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
Well, it's a competitive world out there, Tien-Tsin, as you well know. I think that – there's a price that you need to
get to and then a lot of it has to do with a combination of incumbency or not, the capabilities you have, what your
lineup of customers' clients are in that market, what kind of experience you've had, what kind of innovative ideas
you bring to the table, the other kinds of capabilities that we have in terms of services and new flows.

So, yeah, every deal is different and potentially hinges on different things depending upon the needs of a
particular client. And we try to be very bespoke when we look at deals and talk to clients because their needs and
their situation will always tend to be a bit different.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.
And with that, we'd like to thank you for joining us today. If you have additional questions, please feel free to reach
out to the Investor Relations team. Thanks again, and have a great day.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Thank you for your participation in today's conference. You may disconnect at this time.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             22
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                             Corrected Transcript
Q1 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                           26-Jan-2023




 Disclaimer
 The information herein is based on sources we believe to be reliable but is not guaranteed by us and does not purport to be a complete or error -free statement or summary of the available data.
 As such, we do not warrant, endorse or guarantee the completeness, accuracy, integrity, or timeliness of the information. You must evaluate, and bear all risks associated with, the use of any
 information provided hereunder, including any reliance on the accuracy, completeness, safety or usefulness of such information. This information is not intended to be used as the primary basis
 of investment decisions. It should not be construed as advice designed to meet the particular investment needs of any investor. This report is published solely for information purposes, and is
 not to be construed as financial or other advice or as an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security in any state where such an offer or solicitation would b e illegal. Any
 information expressed herein on this date is subject to change without notice. Any opinions or assertions contained in this information do not represent the opinions or beliefs of FactSet
 CallStreet, LLC. FactSet CallStreet, LLC, or one or more of its employees, including the writer of this report, may have a position in any of the securities discussed herein.

 THE INFORMATION PROVIDED TO YOU HEREUNDER IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, FactSet CallSt reet, LLC AND ITS LICENSORS,
 BUSINESS ASSOCIATES AND SUPPLIERS DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE SAME, EXPRESS, IMPLIED AND STATUTORY, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY IMPLIED
 WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
 LAW, NEITHER FACTSET CALLSTREET, LLC NOR ITS OFFICERS, MEMBERS, DIRECTORS, PARTNERS, AFFILIATES, BUSINESS ASSOCIATES, LICENSORS OR SUPPLIERS WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY
 INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION DAMAGES FOR LOST PROFITS OR RE VENUES, GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE,
 SECURITY BREACHES, VIRUSES, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, USE, DATA OR OTHER INTANGIBLE LOSSES OR COMMERCIAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES IS ADVISED
 OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSSES, ARISING UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE INFORMATION PROVIDED HEREIN OR ANY OTHER SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF.

 The contents and appearance of this report are Copyrighted FactSet CallStreet, LLC 2023 CallStreet and FactSet CallStreet, LLC are trademarks and service marks of FactSet CallStreet, LLC. All
 other trademarks mentioned are trademarks of their respective companies. All rights reserved.




                                                                                                                                                                                                 23
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                  Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
