# Visa Earnings Call: Q2-2023

Source: Visa IR (q4cdn.com), corrected transcript via FactSet

                                                        Corrected Transcript




25-Apr-2023

Visa, Inc. (V)
Q2 2023 Earnings Call




                                                           Total Pages: 20
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com   Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25-Apr-2023



CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Jennifer Como                                                                                                                              Vasant M. Prabhu
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                     Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, Visa, Inc.
Ryan McInerney
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Visa, Inc.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................



OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Timothy Chiodo                                                                                                                             Jason Kupferberg
Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC                                                                                                Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc.
Tien-Tsin Huang                                                                                                                            Lisa Ellis
Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC                                                                                                           Analyst, MoffettNathanson LLC
Will Nance                                                                                                                                 Rayna Kumar
Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC                                                                                                           Analyst, UBS Securities LLC
Trevor Williams                                                                                                                            David John Koning
Analyst, Jefferies LLC                                                                                                                     Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc.
Robert Napoli                                                                                                                              Darrin Peller
Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC                                                                                                           Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC
Sanjay Sakhrani
Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25-Apr-2023



MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator: Welcome to Visa's Fiscal Second Quarter 2023 Earnings Conference Call. All participants are in a
listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any
objections, you may disconnect at this time.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Ms. Jennifer Como, Senior Vice President and Global
Head of Investor Relations. Ms. Como, you may begin.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.
Thanks, Jordan. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Visa's Fiscal Second Quarter 2023 Earnings Call.

Joining us today are Ryan McInerney, Visa's Chief Executive Officer; and Vasant Prabhu, Visa's Vice Chair and
Chief Financial Officer. This call is being webcast on the Investor Relations section of our website at
investor.visa.com. A replay will be archived on our site for 30 days. A slide deck containing financial and statistical
highlights has been posted on our IR website.

Let me also remind you that this presentation includes forward-looking statements. These statements are not
guarantees of future performance, and our actual results could differ materially as a result of many factors.
Additional information concerning those factors is available in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and
any subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, which you can find on the SEC's website and the Investor
Relations section of our website. For non-GAAP financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP
measures and reconciliation are available in today's earnings release.

And with that, let me turn the call over to Ryan.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Ryan McInerney
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Visa, Inc.
Hi, everyone. Good afternoon, and thanks for joining us. Our financial performance in the second quarter of 2023
was very strong with net revenues up 11% year-over-year. Non-GAAP EPS was $2.09, up 17%. Overall, our
global quarterly payments volume was up 13% year-over-year, excluding Russia and China.

In the US, quarterly payments volume was up 10%. Outside the US, excluding China and Russia, payments
volume was up 17.5%. Excluding intra-Europe, total cross-border volume remained strong, up 32% with cross-
border travel volume at 130% of 2019.

Processed transactions grew 12% year-over-year. We remain confident that our strategy is focused on the right
opportunities. In the second quarter, this strategy continued to deliver, driving strong growth through consumer
payments, new flows and value-added services. I'll talk briefly about our progress in each area.

Let's start with consumer payments. Consumer payments remained a massive opportunity for Visa. Even with all
the digitization over the last several decades, there is still a tremendous amount of cash and checks spent
globally. There is a very long runway for growth in this business. In consumer payments the flywheel has three



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                    25-Apr-2023

parts: grow credentials, more buyers on the network; grow acceptance, more sellers on the network; and drive
engagement, more transactions.

We continue to grow credentials, up 7% year-over-year through December and 11% excluding Russia. And we
now have more than 6 billion tokenized credentials, up nearly 90% from last year excluding Russia.

We continue to grow acceptance with over 100 million merchant locations worldwide and Tap to Pay continues to
be a powerful driver of engagement. Globally, 74% of all face-to-face transactions outside the US are now taps. In
the US, we're at 34%, up 7x from three years ago and up more than 10 percentage points from last year.

A couple of highlights in the second quarter include US quick service restaurants where penetration surpassed
40%. And in key metro areas across the United States, we continue to see great traction beyond the success in
New York and San Francisco. L.A., Detroit, Seattle, San Diego and Oakland and Miami are all now over 40%.

Mass transit continues to be one of the best ways to get people used to tapping and we've set records. In the first
half of 2023, we processed more than 745 million Visa Tap to Ride transactions globally, up 35% over the first
half of last year. We've enabled 55 new transit systems, bringing our footprint to over 650. We also had some
significant client wins in the quarter. Starting in North America, we are pleased to have renewed a multiyear
agreement with TD, our top 10 North American bank, for continued Visa credit and debit issuance in both Canada
and the US.

In Canada, we renewed our relationship with CIBC with a new multiyear agreement for Visa credit issuance. We
renewed our partnership with Marqeta, a leading fintech issuer processer, and MoneyGram who is utilizing Visa
Direct for cross-border money movement and just recently signed a consumer debit agreement.

In Asia-Pacific, UOB, one of the leading banks in Asia has renewed and expanded its relationship with us in
Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and Vietnam for both credit and debit cards. OCBC Bank, the second
largest bank in Singapore by market cap, renewed its flagship product and portfolio with us, the OCBC 365 credit
card. MUFG Bank, the banking arm of Japan's largest financial group, renewed its long-term debit partnership.
Chunghwa POST, Taiwan's post office and the largest debit issuer in Taiwan, has renewed its long-term exclusive
partnership with Visa. And in India, we're very excited about a long-term consumer credit contract with Axis Bank,
targeting new affluent customer segments.

Additionally, I want to highlight an exciting new product innovation that we launched in Japan with our longtime
partner SMBC. It is a single flexible credential that a consumer can choose to use as a debit, credit or prepaid
card. SMBC calls the product, Olive, and we think it could meaningfully enhance the buying experience for SMBC
customers and users in many other countries around the world.

Now to Europe. In Germany, we've signed a co-brand deal with Solaris and ADAC, which is Germany's largest
automobile association with 21 million members. Visa is excited to be the new network of choice for one of the
country's largest co-brand portfolios. In Israel, we renewed and expanded our relationship with our largest issuer,
Bank Leumi. In Belgium, we recently reached agreements with six issuers to migrate over 2.6 million debit cards
to Visa in the next few years, bringing our country total since 2021 to 6.5 million new Visa debit cards. And finally
in Latin America, from December 2019 to 2022, we have grown our credentials by 1.5x and our merchant
locations by almost 2.5x. Over that time period, the percentage of our total volume that is point-of-sale payments
versus getting cash out of an ATM has grown from 46% to 59% demonstrating the cash digitization happening in
the region.




                                                                                                                    4
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                    Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                     25-Apr-2023

In Colombia, we're pleased to partner on a co-brand with LATAM Airlines, the largest airline in Latin America. We
continue to strengthen our position in Brazil, renewing our partnership with Itaú, the largest private bank in the
country. We also announced a new strategic deal with Banco De Brasilia that expands upon our existing
agreement, including a popular credit program issued in partnership with one of Brazil's leading football teams
with over 40 million fans. Also in Brazil, WhatsApp had already launched peer-to-peer service to facilitate money
transfer using Visa Direct. And recently they announced they will be offering payments from consumers to small
businesses as well.

In more and more we see clients work with Visa on multiple levels across consumer payments, new flows and
value-added services. Natura, the world's fourth largest beauty group with 4 million beauty consultants in Latin
America is a recent example. In 2020, we announced a deal with them, and we just renewed our agreement
which includes digital issuance of a Visa business credential and adds acceptance innovations as well as
CyberSource risk management solutions.

Thus far in Brazil, we've issued cards to almost 50% of the Natura consultants, and we love working with clients
that take advantage of our full range of solutions. It's Visa at our best, serving clients in multiple ways across our
growth levers.

Now let me turn to new flows. The potential payments volume opportunity in new flows is enormous, 10x that of
consumer payments. New flows' revenue in our second quarter grew more than 20% in constant dollars,
excluding Russia. Commercial volume was up 15% in constant dollars and Visa Direct transactions were up 32%,
excluding Russia.

We've been winning in new flows by executing our network-of-network strategy. And two weeks ago, we
announced a new network called Visa+ that further extends our network-of-networks. This new network allows
users to send and receive payments among different P2P apps through a personalized payment address, a Visa+
pay name. This enables P2P payments from one app directly to another app as well as gig, creator and
marketplace payouts. This can be done through an app, a neobank or a wallet. We're connecting endpoints and
form factors and enabling interoperability, our network-of-network strategy at work. We're launching pilots with
several partners including Venmo, PayPal, TabaPay and Western Union, with more to come soon.

Let me now turn to Visa Direct. Visa Direct is also a great example of our network-of-networks. Visa Direct utilizes
66 ACH networks, 11 RTP networks, 16 card-based networks and 5 gateways with the potential to reach nearly 7
billion endpoints globally.

We continue to grow Visa Direct with new-use cases and partners. For example, in Peru, Banco de Crédito del
Perú, BBVA, Interbank and Scotiabank chose Visa Direct as their preferred network and YellowPepper as their
technology enabler for the interoperability among their wallets and payment apps.

Last year, we announced our agreement with the payments infrastructure platform Thunes to add send-to-wallet
capabilities to Visa Direct. Similarly this quarter, our cross-border reach continued to grow, expanding coverage to
32 new wallet providers across 22 countries by connecting to TerraPay, a leading cross-border payment
infrastructure company. Together, Visa Direct and TerraPay can enable P2P remittances for individuals as well as
business payouts through accounts, wallets and cards.

Enablers remain an important part of our strategy and we're partnering with Fiserv to expand on their US
domestic Visa Direct business by commercially launching cross-border capabilities for their clients, starting with
outbound payouts.


                                                                                                                         5
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                     Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                               Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                     25-Apr-2023


I'll mention two other recent cross-border agreements. We signed a deal with Brightwell, a global payments
technology company to leverage Visa Direct to expand cross-border remittances and payout capabilities for their
customers in over 175 countries, across a variety of industries such as travel and financial services. And earlier
this quarter, PayPal's Xoom announced that customers in the United States can send money directly to an eligible
Visa debit card in 25 countries utilizing Visa Direct.

In the second quarter, Visa Direct cross-border P2P transactions, excluding Russia grew nearly 50%.

While Visa Direct is growing fast, B2B is the largest component of new flows. And traditional issuance is the core
of what we do today in B2B, comprising the majority of the over $760 billion in commercial payments volume
year-to-date. I'll highlight three important issuance deals.

In Colombia, we renewed with Grupo Bancolombia, the largest issuer and acquirer in the country for commercial
credit and prepaid as well as consumer credit.

Financial technology platform Adyen has expanded its offerings with a Visa commercial card initially targeted to
its global merchant customers. Visa and Stripe's issuing partnership offers card issuance to enterprise and startup
consumers in the US, the UK and Europe.

And for cross-border B2B money movement, which you all know is about Visa B2B Connect, a solution that seeks
to deliver predictability, speed, reliability, efficiency, data and flexibility to our clients.

We're building an entirely new network, and we're making progress. Over the last six months, we've signed nearly
30 banks in more than 20 countries, and payments have been routed to 90 countries globally. And there are
several areas for additional expansion in B2B such as new capabilities, new geographies and new verticals.
Today I'll talk about two verticals, fleet and fuel and agriculture.

In fleet and fuel, we're seeing a big shift in this vertical where the historically closed loop systems are opening up
and receiving the benefits of our investment and innovation. For example, the Standard Bank in South Africa will
issue Visa fleet cards in South Africa with plans to roll out across four additional priority markets across Africa in
2024.

Over the past two years, Visa has signed or launched fleet-focused solutions for over a dozen providers with
more to come. In Latin America, we're bringing our innovative capabilities to an untapped vertical, the agriculture
industry. Agriculture represents nearly 15% of the workforce and nearly 25% of the exports in the region, which
supplies nearly 15% of the world's food production. Visa has developed a solution called Visa Agro. It provides
credit access to farmers in advance of their harvest so that they can buy inputs using Visa credentials with
payment periods aligned with their production cycle. Visa Agro is live in six countries through partnerships with
banks, fintechs, processors and marketplaces.

Now I'll touch on value-added services. Value-added services are equally important to Visa's accelerated growth.
By offering compelling value-added services, we help to grow our clients' businesses and deepen our
relationships with these clients, increase the yields on our own network volumes and expand beyond our own
network by adding value to non-Visa transactions. Our existing suite of value-added services is impressive. In the
second quarter, we had about $1.7 billion in value-added services revenue, up 20% in constant dollars, and our
clients continue to add value-added services.




                                                                                                                      6
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                     Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25-Apr-2023

An example is Wells Fargo. As they modernize their acquiring solutions, they're working with CyberSource to offer
enhanced product features and functionality for their Merchant Services customers. Or in Europe, fiscal year-to-
date, we've signed on nearly 80% more clients than last year across 11 countries in our popular risk credits, Visa
Advanced Authorization and Visa Risk Manager, which together deliver increased transactions through higher
authorization rates while also lowering fraud.

Our network products, which include services such as account and address verification, stop payments and
Smarter Stand-in Processing, continued to grow at a rapid pace with nearly 500 clients added year-to-date
globally. We also have enhanced and developed new value-added services which are helping to drive growth and
innovation. I'll briefly share three examples: Visa Acceptance Cloud; Managed Services and Risk-as-a-Service.

We spoke about Visa Acceptance Cloud last year, which moves embedded payment processing from individual
devices to the cloud. It eliminates the need for expensive terminals as well as the cost and time to certify the
processing software. I'm pleased to share that First National Bank in South Africa has launched this solution and
Visa expects more pilots to follow soon globally.

Next is Managed Services, part of our advisory solutions, which when we embed Visa employees with subject
matter expertise within a client's organization to execute on a specific actionable project such as an ongoing
management of risk and fraud parameters, product implementations, or execution of customer engagement
strategies.

For example, one issuer for whom we provided end-to-end campaign execution enjoyed a 15% lift in spend and a
40% increase in activation. Managed Services are bringing strong results for our clients and growing revenue
twice as fast as our core advisory business through the second quarter.

Finally, our Risk-as-a-Service offerings also continue to be utilized powered by network-level data, AI capabilities
and our risk experts. For example, our AI and machine learning-enabled monitoring service identify suspicious
decline activity. For one client we were able to identify a scheme where fraudsters were testing for valid accounts
and then using the accounts to make fraudulent purchases. Visa blocked over $7 million in attempted fraud in just
one month on behalf of this client. This is just one example, but you can see how these risk services enable us to
both help our clients and generate revenue for Visa. Since launching six months ago, we've added nearly a dozen
direct clients across three regions with a very active pipeline.

In closing, as you all know, I've been at Visa for nearly a decade. And I can say I've never been more excited
about the opportunities in front of us. We have a compelling strategy, a world-class team, fantastic clients and an
incredible set of capabilities that I believe are second to none. While the current environment still feels uncertain,
we have contingency plans ready and are prepared to take action as needed. We're constantly seeking the right
balance between the realities of short-term with the enormous opportunities ahead.

So with that, now Vasant will lead us through the financial highlights from the quarter and our thoughts on the rest
of the year.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Vasant M. Prabhu
Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, Visa, Inc.
Thank you, Ryan. Good afternoon, everyone. In our fiscal second quarter, net revenues were up 11% and GAAP
EPS up 20%. Non-GAAP EPS was up 17%. In constant dollars, net revenues grew 13% and non-GAAP EPS
grew 20%.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                    25-Apr-2023

Adjusted for the discontinuation of operations in Russia, net revenue growth was around 18% in constant dollars.
Net revenue growth exceeded our expectations due to strong value-added services and new flows growth, high
currency volatility and lower than anticipated client incentives.

A few key highlights. In constant dollars, Global Payments volume was up 10%. Excluding China and adjusted for
Russia, Global Payments volume was up 13%. As a reminder, January and the early part of February lapped
Omicron impacts last year.

Index of 2019, excluding China and Russia, Global Payments volume was up 61%, which is a compound annual
growth rate of approximately 12.5% over the pandemic years. US payments volume was up 10% year-over-year,
again helped by lapping the Omicron impact last year. Relative to 2019, US payments volume was up 58%,
compounding at 12% over the pandemic years.

The cross-border travel recovery continues at the pace we expected, indexing at 130 versus four years ago, a 5-
point improvement from Q1. As expected, the rebound in Asia is now the primary driver. Travel in and out of Asia
reached 2019 levels in the quarter. And travel into the US was very close. We believe there is more recovery to
come. Travel from Mainland China has mostly benefited other parts of Asia so far, but early bookings suggest
strong interest in Europe as the summer approaches.

Our new flows and value-added services businesses continue to power ahead. Excluding Russia and in constant
dollars, both businesses grew revenues at or above 20%. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2023, we bought
back approximately $2.2 billion in stock at an average cost of $222.09 and distributed $941 million in dividends.

Now on to the details. In the US, credit grew 10.5% year-over-year, slightly faster than first quarter. US debit grew
9.6%, up more than 1 point from Q1. US card-present spend grew 8%. US card-not-present volume, excluding
travel, grew 9%.

As we look at the monthly cadence in the US through the quarter, January and the early part of February
benefited from lapping Omicron to varying degrees. In March, payments volume growth ticked down and has
remained at similar growth levels through the first three weeks of April. The primary driver of the tick down in the
growth rate has been US ticket size, while transaction growth remains in line with Q1 levels at around 8%.

Ticket size was up over 1% year-over-year in the first quarter and is down about 2% in March through April 21.
Ticket sizes are declining as inflation moderates. Most notably, starting in March and through the summer, we will
be lapping the peaks in fuel prices last year. For example, in March 2023, fuel prices were nearly 20% lower than
last year. In 2022, fuel prices continued to rise through spring and peaked in June.

Also contributing is discounting in particular retail goods channels. You have heard various US retailers comment
publicly about price cuts they are implementing to clear out inventory or pass on reductions in costs.

Across other categories of spend in the US, payments volume growth remained strong in services, in particular,
travel and entertainment. Nondiscretionary spend growth in categories like food and drug is also holding up well.

Another factor that is a potential drag on US payments volume growth starting in March and through April is the
impact of lapping higher tax refunds. Refunds are largely spent in the few weeks post receipt. Based on IRS
reported data through April 14, tax refunds are 11% lower this year. We expect this headwind to abate as we get
into May.




                                                                                                                       8
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                    Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                           Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                 25-Apr-2023

Moving on to international markets, in constant dollars, international payments volume growth rates was strong
through the quarter in the major markets. Latin America was up 27% due to improved growth in Mexico and the
South Cone. Our CEMEA region, excluding Russia, grew 29%. Europe was up 13%. Excluding the UK, Europe
volumes grew 31%, reflecting share gains in multiple markets. Excluding portfolio conversion, volume trends in
the UK improved. Asia Pacific excluding China, continued to recover, up 17%. Global processed transactions are
up 12%.

Constant dollar cross-border volume, excluding transactions within Europe, but including Russia in prior period,
were up 32% year over year and up 46% versus four years ago. Excluding Russia, year-over-year growth was
higher by about 3 points and indexed to four years ago was higher by 5 points. Cross-border card-not-present
volume growth, excluding travel and excluding intra-Europe grew 6% year over year and was 77% above 2019.

Adjusted for cryptocurrency purchases and Russia, cross-border e-commerce spending grew in the low double-
digits. Cross-border card-not-present excluding travel and intra-Europe represented over 40% of total cross-
border volumes in the second quarter. Cross-border travel-related spend, excluding intra-Europe grew 59% year
over year. The cross-border travel, excluding intra-Europe, indexed to four years ago went from 129 in December
to 134 in March, or up 5 points.

Travel into Asia now exceeds 2019 level, while travel out of Asia is around 2019 levels, improving 13 and 11
points respectively from the first quarter versus four years ago. Travel out of Mainland China is a key driver to
watch. With airline capacity coming back fast and streamlined visa issuance, Southeast Asia has been the biggest
beneficiary of travel from Mainland China. This is beginning to change as airline capacity is added in other
corridors, especially Europe and COVID-related requirements are eased. We expect the recovery of Asian and in
particular Chinese travel to be a key driver of the final leg of the cross-border recovery.

Travel outbound from the US to all geographies continue to be strong in the low 150s indexed to 2019. Travel
inbound to the US is still hovering just under 2019 levels. A strong US dollar, travel Visa backlog and COVID
restrictions have been dragged on the recovery, but all are beginning to ease.

Europe, excluding intra-Europe, inbound and outbound remained strong with a travel index to 2019 in the low
130s for outbound and high 140s for inbound. Travel into Latin America and the Caribbean also remained very
strong, indexing the low 160s to 2019 levels. Travel in and out of CEMEA indexed in the high 140s versus four
years ago with outbound up more than 5 points from the first quarter and inbound up by about 10 points.

Moving now to a quick review of second quarter financial results. Service revenue grew 7% versus the 7% growth
in first quarter constant dollar payments volume. Exchange rate drag was offset by growth from business mix and
pricing. Data processing revenues grew 10% versus the 12% processed transactions growth. The primary reason
is that our data processing revenues are impacted by Russia. However, our transaction growth is not. Adjusting
for Russia, data processing revenues were up 14%, held by value-added services strength.

International transaction revenues were up 24%, versus the 32% increase in constant dollar cross-border volume
excluding intra-Europe. Revenue growth was helped by high currency volatility, although lower than the first
quarter and pricing actions, offset by exchange rate shifts and business mix.

Other revenues grew 16%, led by marketing and consulting services, as well as benefiting from acquisitions.
Client incentives were 26.7% of gross revenue below expectations due to some deal timing, client performance
and other items.




                                                                                                                   9
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                  Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                               Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                     25-Apr-2023

Revenue growth was robust across our three growth engines. Consumer payments growth was led by the
strength in domestic volume, transactions and cross-border volume, as well as high currency volatility.

New flows revenue grew over 20%, excluding Russia in constant dollars. Commercial volumes were up 15% in
constant dollars and 60% over four years ago. Excluding Russia, Visa Direct transactions grew 32%. Value-added
services revenue grew 20% in constant dollars, driven by higher volume, increased client penetration and select
pricing actions.

GAAP operating expenses grew 11%. Non-GAAP operating expenses grew 13%, led primarily by personnel
expenses from head count additions over the past year. Excluding losses from our equity investments of around
$90 million, non-GAAP, non-operating income was $32 million, benefiting from higher interest income due to
rising rates and a few other items.

Our GAAP tax rate was 19.3% and non-GAAP was 19.4%. GAAP EPS was $2.03. Non-GAAP EPS was $2.09,
up 17% over last year, inclusive of a 3-point drag from the stronger dollar. Through the first three weeks of April,
US payments volume was up 6%, with debit up 6% and credit also up 6% compared to four years ago, they are
up 54%, 63% and 45% respectively.

In key markets around the world, we saw continued strength. Processed transactions grew 10% year-over-year
and up 50% above four years ago. Constant dollar cross-border volume, excluding transactions within Europe,
grew 28% and was 47% above four years ago. Card-not-present non-travel growth was 77% above four years
ago. Travel-related cross-border volumes were 31% over four years ago.

Moving now to our outlook for the third quarter. Growth in domestic payments volumes remained stable around
the globe. As we said last quarter, the recovery from COVID is behind us now for domestic volumes. Post the
Omicron impacts from last year in January and February, US domestic volume growth rates have ticked down in
March driven by the factors we discussed earlier. We believe that some of these factors will persist through the
third quarter. As such, we are assuming March and April trends will continue in the US for the rest of the quarter.

In aggregate, we expect the international growth trajectory remains largely unchanged from the second quarter.
On the cross-border front, the travel recovery trend has been steady and generally in line with our expectations so
far in fiscal year 2023. The cross-border travel index for 2019, excluding intra-Europe has been improving at a
rate of 5 to 6 points each quarter. We're assuming this trend is sustained through the third quarter.

The big driver is recovery in Asia continuing, especially driven by Mainland China. We expect Chinese travel to
extend beyond Asia to Europe as we enter the summer.

On the cross-border e-commerce front, we're also assuming recent trends continue adjusted for crypto-related
volatility. It is important to note that even as the cross-border business continues to recover, relative to 2019, the
year-over-year growth rate will continue to slow down as it has over the past few quarters.

Also, currency volatility is moderating and we are now lapping very high currency volatilities from the third quarter
of last year.

Our value-added services and new flows businesses have grown much faster than our consumer payments
business. Sustaining faster growth rates for these businesses remains a critical priority.




                                                                                                                    10
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                     Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25-Apr-2023

Client incentives growth is expected to be higher in the second half than it was in the first. This is driven by some
delays in renewals that were expected in the first half as well as some significant renewals that were anticipated
in fiscal year 2024, but are now happening in the second half of fiscal year 2023.

In the first half, client incentives as a percent of gross revenue was below our outlook range of 26.5% to 27.5%. In
the second half, this percentage is likely to run above the high end of the range. We expect to finish the year in
the upper half of the 26.5% to 27.5% range. When you pull all this together, third quarter net revenue growth is
expected to be in the low-double digits, inclusive of an approximately 1-point drag from exchange rates.

As we indicated previously, non-GAAP operating expense growth is expected to moderate through the year. Our
expectations remain unchanged. Q3 non-GAAP operating expense growth is expected to be 2 to 3 points lower
than the second quarter, inclusive of an exchange rate impact, which may add 0.5 point to growth. And Q4 non-
GAAP operating expense growth will likely be another 2 to 3 points lower than Q3.

Non-GAAP results excludes certain acquisition-related items and the litigation provision from the third quarter last
year. Non-operating income will continue to benefit from the attractive rates we are earning on our cash balances.
As you know, short-term rates have been high lately, which is very helpful, given that we always have very low
duration on our cash balances.

Interest income from cash will likely offset interest expense from debt by $5 million to $10 million in the third
quarter.

Our tax rate is expected to remain in the 19% to 19.5% range in the third quarter. As we've said previously,
should there be a recession or a geopolitical shock that impacts our business slowing revenue growth below our
assumptions, we will, of course, adjust our spending plan by reprioritizing investments, scaling back or delaying
programs and pulling back as appropriate in personnel expenses, marketing spend, travel and other controllable
categories.

In summary, as Ryan said, Visa today has three robust growth engines: consumer payments; new flows; and
value-added services. Our results in the second quarter attest that growth remains healthy across all three
businesses. The opportunity is vast and the runway for growth remains long.

With that, I'll turn this back to Jennifer.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.
Thanks, Vasant. And with that, we're ready to take questions, Jordan.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25-Apr-2023



QUESTION AND ANSWER SECTION
Operator: [Operator Instructions] . Our first question comes from Timothy Chiodo with Credit Suisse. Your line is
open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Timothy Chiodo
Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                               Q
Great. Thank you for taking the question. I want to talk a little bit about Visa+ a little bit on the mechanics and sort
of what could be and then a brief follow up. So on mechanics, my understanding is, and as you mentioned, apps,
neobanks and wallets can be a part of this. But what about the prospect of any account being able to be attached
to a pay name that's associated with Visa+, meaning traditional bank accounts? And, also, understand that at
present, the Payname concept in Visa+ is domestic only, but potentially has the chance to expand to cross-
border.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Ryan McInerney
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
Thanks for the question. Just before I get into two specific parts that you asked about, just back up. Visa+ is a
great example of how a lot of innovations in Visa work. Our team started with a problem in the market, which is
people have – we all have these apps with money in them and it's not easy to get money from one app to another.
And so starting with the problem, which then created the opportunity, we then together with a number of different
parts of the company, laid out a roadmap and then announced the Payname feature in the Visa+ network, I
guess, it was a couple weeks ago.

And like anything, to find product market fit, we are starting with some very specific use cases. So, yes, domestic.
Yes, we've started with a few partners who happen to be – but not just in the P2P wallet business like PayPal is
with both Venmo and PayPal. We also mentioned Western Union, who is a launch partner with us.

In theory, the Payname construct could be extended to really any source of funds on any surface. But we're really
focused on – it's early days. We just launched. We think it's a great idea. We think it's got great product market fit.
We've gotten really good feedback from the market. We're focused on launching in the US with the partners that
we mentioned. And we'll go from there.

Thanks for the question, Timothy.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question, Jordan?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Timothy Chiodo
Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                               Q
Thank you.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from Tien-Tsin Huang with JPMorgan. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25-Apr-2023

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Tien-Tsin, are you there?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Tien-Tsin Huang
Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q
I am, Jennifer. Can you hear me?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Yes. Now we can.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Tien-Tsin Huang
Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q
Sorry about that. Thanks for taking my question and for all the good detail here. Just I want to make sure – just
can we infer from the no change in the operating expense outlook here that Vasant went through that the modest
slowdown you saw in March is limited to the US and largely inflation and, I think, tax related? And it sounds like it
shouldn't extend beyond third quarter from what you see. And then, otherwise, no real surprises, in the consumer
globally. I just wanted to rehash that back to you.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Vasant M. Prabhu
Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
Yeah. The short answer is yes. We think the consumer is still in good shape. As we said, spending across most
categories other than a couple I mentioned, like fuel and some retail goods price cutting, very strong across
services, strong across travel and entertainment, strong in nondiscretionary. So yes, that's how we feel.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question, Jordan?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Tien-Tsin Huang
Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q
Awesome.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from Will Nance with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Will Nance
Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q
Hey, guys. Appreciate you taking the question. We've heard of a couple instances of several large merchants that
have made the decision to start routing more e-commerce transactions over alternative networks over the past
three to five months. So I just wanted to maybe get an update on your thoughts around some of the recent
regulations in the US based on conversations with acquirers, merchants and issuers. Are there any updated
thoughts or expectations around the potential impact as new regulations are implemented over the next several
months?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25-Apr-2023

Ryan McInerney
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
Yeah. No updates, but I'll just kind of again summarize for you how we see things. The changes that the Fed put
in place were consistent with our expectations, no changes to the card-present side of things. Obviously, in the e-
commerce side of things, it requires issuers to enable to unaffiliated networks for e-com.

Most Visa issuers were already in compliance. Those that aren't will be. We've said and continue to believe that
there will be minimum impact in fiscal year 2023. And beyond that, it's yet to be determined. We'll kind of see how
the marketplace plays out.

We continue to believe that merchants are going to want to choose to route transactions to Visa for a number of
reasons. One is, in the e-com space, the merchants bear the liability for fraud in e-commerce. So the ability to
save a couple basis points in costs have to be weighed against the risk that comes from the liability of fraud in the
e-commerce space. We believe that our tools, capabilities and platforms to help reduce fraud are second to none.
We've got advanced fraud and risk processing capabilities that help both issuers, acquirers and sellers reduce
fraud.

And we've also got a product that has dual messaging functionality that, in a number of different use cases,
whether it's airlines or hotels or rental cars or in the retail space where there's ordering multiple products that are
shipped at different times, the enhanced dual messaging functionality is really required.

So as always, we're going to continue to compete vigorously. We're going to continue to invest in our products,
our capabilities, our services. The market is very competitive today. It's going to get more competitive, but we like
our chances to continue to win.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question, Jordan?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from Trevor Williams with Jefferies. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Trevor Williams
Analyst, Jefferies LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Q
Great. Thanks. I want to follow up on value-added services and how much cyclicality we should expect on that
line? I mean, they've been consistently growing faster than net revenue. Vasant, I know you said maintaining that
elevated growth in new flows and value-added services is a priority. But if we are in an environment with slowing
volume growth, just how do you expect value-added services in aggregate? And I know there's a wide range of
what gets folded in under that label, but just in aggregate, how you expect value-add services to hold up relative
to the consumer payments business? Thanks.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Vasant M. Prabhu
Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
Yeah. I'll start, and I'm sure Ryan will add. Yeah, our goal, of course, is to grow the value-added services
business faster than the consumer payments business. And you have to remember that the secular growth in that
business coming from adding new services, which we are doing regularly from expanding services outside the




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25-Apr-2023

US, which we're doing, as well as deepening penetration with existing clients because not all of them buy all of
the services, so there's already a secular growth component.

In terms of being affected by market trends, there are services clearly that are linked to transactions. That's true of
many of our services like our DPS business, which is issuer processing on a CyberSource business, and even to
some degree, the fraud businesses. So yes, these transactions are impacted in some way. There will be some
impact on it, but there is underlying secular growth in that business. I don't know if you would add anything.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Ryan McInerney
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
Nothing to add. Well said.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question, Jordan?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from Bob Napoli with William Blair. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Robert Napoli
Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q
Thank you and good afternoon. I wanted to – with all the growth in new flows and networks, I just wanted to follow
up on the evolution of new technologies, AI and blockchain and how that's affecting your business, how Visa's
utilizing those technologies? And do they add any opportunities or risks to your business?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Ryan McInerney
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
Hey, Bob. I think I heard the gist of the question cut in and out a little bit. Let me hit AI and blockchain. I think
that's what you're asking. More broadly, we're obviously monitoring anything and everything that's impacting
commerce and money movement around the world. And our approach is what it has been, which is to lean into
those technologies and use them to add value to our products and services and clients and capabilities around
the world.

I just, I guess, AI and blockchain. On AI, clearly, a lot of activity in generative AI right now. Before I get to that, I'll
just mention that we have a long history of developing and using predictive AI and deep learning. We were one of
the pioneers applied predictive AI. We have an enormous data set that we've architected to be utilized at scale by
hundreds of AI and ML different services that people use all across Visa. We use it to run our company more
effectively. We use it to serve our clients more effectively, and this will continue to be a big part of what we do.

As you transition to generative AI, this is where we see this as an opportunity to take our current AI services to the
next level. We are, kind of, as a platform, experimenting with a lot of the new capabilities that are available. We've
got people all over the company that are tinkering and dreaming and thinking and doing testing and figuring out
ways that we could use generative AI to transform how we do what we do, which is deliver simple, safe and easy-
to-use payment solutions.

And we're also spending a fair bit of time thinking how generative AI will change the way that sellers sell, and we
all buy in all of the shops. So that is – it's big area of opportunity that we're looking at in many different ways
across the company.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25-Apr-2023


In terms of, I guess, blockchain and crypto, as far as we see, it's still early days, still emerging technologies. But
as we've said in other venues, we see the potential for blockchain. We see the potential for stable coins. If you
look at what we're doing in the market today, it's relatively basic, but I'd call it important work. We're enabling on
and off ramps on crypto. We're working with exchanges around the world to issue their users Visa credentials.
And we're developing the capability for our issuer and acquirer partners to have a choice to settle in stable coins.
And we're engaging with central banks all around the world on CBDC priorities.

Now the stuff we've got going in the lab, if you will, the R&D work that we're doing is we're testing and ideating on
all sorts of different ideas on how we could leverage blockchain and Web3 and Layer-1 and Layer- 2 solutions,
smart contracts. I mean we've got teams of people that are exploring all those different types of innovations, and
we'll see how they play out in the market. And if there's things to scale, we want to be part of that.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Sanjay Sakhrani
Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Q
Thank you. Vasant, I'm just trying to think about all the areas that are impacting you differently than what you may
have planned for the fiscal year like this transitory impact that you mentioned in March and April that are
persisting and then the moderating FX volatility. As we pull up and think about the fiscal year, do you feel like
we're in about the same place where you started in terms of your forecast, given the strength in other places?
Just trying to think through all of that. Thanks.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Vasant M. Prabhu
Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
Yeah. I think that's right. Clearly, the moderation and volatility is not a big surprise. Volatility last year were very
high by historical standards. If anything, they've held up better than we expected so far this year. And even now,
they're, I'd say, a little bit higher than long-run medians, but not as – last year was real highs that we haven't seen
in a while. So that's not a surprise.

The cross-border business is recovering almost on track with our expectations, which, again, we had no real
crystal ball, but we are very close to what we were expecting. And it's recovering nicely and it's exactly as we
expected. Asia driving it. China playing an important role.

The cross-border e-commerce business, in general, the e-commerce business is holding up well. International is
very strong, especially Europe. Europe is strong, defying what we may have expected going into the year. If there
is a positive surprise, it's clearly Europe.

And then other parts of the world like Latin America, many – most parts of Latin America and the Middle East are
also doing well. And Asia is recovering. So yes, I mean, as you would expect some things are better than you
expect. Some things are a little bit lower. But in aggregate, the business is doing as well or better than we
expected, as you saw from our results.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25-Apr-2023

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from Jason Kupferberg with Bank of America. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jason Kupferberg
Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Q
Good afternoon, guys. Just going back to your initial expectations for fiscal 2023, at the outset of the fiscal year, I
believe you were forecasting the Q4 net revenue growth would accelerate versus Q3. Just wondering if that's still
the case given some of the quarterly moving parts here, including on the incentive line? Thank you.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Vasant M. Prabhu
Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
I don't think we gave you quarterly revenue growth outlook. So I don't know exactly where that came from. I
mean, we said – we gave you some sense of our planning assumptions for the full year and said that we would
give you one quarter out – our best sense of the quarter out, which we've done for Q3. And we'll give you our best
sense of Q4 when we get to July.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from Lisa Ellis with MoffettNathanson. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Lisa Ellis
Analyst, MoffettNathanson LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Q
Hey, good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. I have just a question on the upcoming official launch of
FedNow in July. Ryan, you mentioned in your prepared remarks, of course, that Visa Direct works with dozens of
other networks around the world. Are you anticipating connecting into FedNow? And can you just update us again
on how you see the rollout of FedNow affecting Visa, particularly your ability to win in new flows? Thank you.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Ryan McInerney
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
Thanks, Lisa. Yeah, we want to connect to any real-time payment network on the planet and that's been our track
record so far. That's the short answer to the first part of your question. Just back up, I'll just take a minute on this.
Before I dive into FedNow, let me put it in context as it relates to Visa.

Today – I'll start with Visa Debit. Visa Debit is a feature-rich widely adopted safe, simple, secure payment option.
We've got global broad-based acceptance. We've got dual message capabilities, as I mentioned earlier, well-
established disputes and chargeback processes, well-understood rules and accepted rules, not just in the US but
around the world. We've got zero liability fraud protection, tokenization capabilities, risk management tools,
security services, and it's a really, really good customer experience. It's a great buy-in experience. It's a great sell-
in experience. So that's Visa Debit.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             17
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25-Apr-2023

On Visa Direct, Visa Direct builds on all those features, the scale, the ubiquity, the great experiences to deliver
push payment solutions, both domestically and around the world, as I mentioned earlier, to 7 billion endpoints.
And there, too, it's a really, really good customer experience both for the user and for the enabler of the
experience.

So if you put FedNow in context of all of that, so just to talk specifically about FedNow, the first thing I would say
is that modernizing the payments infrastructure in the United States is a smart thing to do, it's a necessary thing to
do, and it's good for Americans.

So it's something that is a good thing happening in the US. And I'd also say that any force that digitizing money
movement is a catalyzing force for all of us. And I expect that the FedNow, like TCH, it's going to take some time.
It will eventually get traction, but it will take some time to build adoption.

And one of the most – I'd say it this way. One of the most powerful capabilities in payments is ubiquity. RTP
doesn't have that yet in the US. It will happen, but it's going to take time. And the other thing I'd say is that an RTP
transaction is a relatively simple transaction type, it's instant, it's permanent and it's irrevocable.

I think over time, it will get enhanced, but that's kind of where we are. So if you take all that and say, what does it
mean? I think the most instructive thing to do as we think about real-time payments in the US is look around the
world. And if you go to the UK, we've had faster payments in the UK for 15 years now. We haven't seen much, if
any, impact on Visa Debit. And the UK is also – it's a robust and growing market for Visa Direct.

So I think we'll see what happens. We'll see how things expand in the US, but kind of like I was saying earlier, we
like our products, we love our clients, we love the capabilities and teams that we have, and we feel good about
our ability to continue to add value and grow the businesses in the US.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from Rayna Kumar with UBS. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Rayna Kumar
Analyst, UBS Securities LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Q
Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions. B2B Connect seems like it could be a big opportunity to capture
B2B cross-border. I know, Ryan, you mentioned that over the last six months, Visa has signed nearly 30 banks for
B2B Connect. Can you talk about the competitive environment and the sales process with those customers? And
if you can give us a sense of how much volume has been flowing through B2B Connect? Thank you.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Ryan McInerney
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
Yeah. Thanks for the question. We're building out a new network. We know how to do that and we also know it
takes time. If I give an example and then come back to your question, we're excited to talk with all of you about
the success we're having with Visa Direct – the billions of transactions, the use cases, everything that we're
seeing now. That journey started many, many years ago. Country by country, client by client, working with our
issuing clients, especially to get into their tech queues, build out the functionality and then you fast-forward many



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             18
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25-Apr-2023

years and we're having the success that we're having with that platform today. B2B Connect is in the earlier
stages of that.

So to your question around the sales cycles, we know how to do it. We've done it with other networks as we built
out, but it takes time. Country by country around the world, we're working with our banks. We're helping them
understand the value of the product and the solution, which almost unanimously is the easiest part of the sales
process.

Like when you compare B2B Connect versus the alternatives that are out there, I mean, I mentioned in my
prepared remarks, side by side to almost any other alternative that's out there, Visa – B2B Connect is a far
superior product, but it takes time. So we're working on it country by country. I mentioned some of the numbers in
my prepared remarks. I don't have any numbers to share today beyond those. And we expect, over time, we'll
share more with you about the success we're hopefully having.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Next question?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our next question comes from Dave Koning with Baird. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

David John Koning
Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Q
Yeah. Hey, guys. Thank you. And my question, just personnel expense was up 24% year-over-year. It was one of
the biggest increases we've seen, which is kind of in the face of a lot of tech companies that are cutting. Why was
it up so much, I guess, is just the question?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Vasant M. Prabhu
Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
Yeah, it's additions we have made over the last 12 months in head count. There's also some unusual items that
flow through there that are offset. This is the deferred comp. It hits you on the personnel line, but it's offset on the
non-operating income line. So that distorts it a little bit.

But you will see that growth rate start to decline quite a bit, because we've been moderating head count increases
as we went through the year. And it's all incorporated in the outlook we gave you for expenses, which we told you
was the growth of expenses will slow through the year, it was two or three points lower than last quarter. This
quarter, it will be two to three points lower next quarter and another two to three points lower in the fourth quarter
and we're on track for that.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
Last question, Jordan?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Operator: Our final question comes from Darrin Peller with Wolfe Research. Your line is open.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Darrin Peller
Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             19
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
Visa, Inc. (V)                                                                                                                                                                                              Corrected Transcript
Q2 2023 Earnings Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25-Apr-2023

Hey. Thanks, guys. Vasant, we heard your comments on third quarter growth expectations, but would just love to
hear a little bit more on full year. You've obviously outperformed so far, especially really on both reported and
constant-currency basis, the first fiscal quarters. And then guidance seems to be shaping up better than your full-
year outlook. So just maybe a little more comment on how you see the full year versus guidance.

And then, I guess, Ryan, on the yields it looks so strong. Do you see a long runway for value-added services to
keep growing as a percentage of every transaction revenue mix going forward, so that that can keep being
sustainable?
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Vasant M. Prabhu
Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
Yeah. Look, I think we'll stick with what we said earlier. I think you have a good sense of the trends. And if the
trends continue, it's very easy for you to assess what the fourth quarter would look like. And as it relates to value-
added services, I don't know, Ryan, if you want to add anything. But clearly, I mean, the approach to value-added
services is the yield enhancer. If you have the transaction, the more value-added services you can provide, the
higher the yield you can get on the transaction, and that is clearly the objective.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Ryan McInerney
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Visa, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
Yeah. I think we've got great sales teams, great product teams all around the world. They're doing a great job
sitting with our clients, helping them understand these products and services, and getting those products and
services embedded into our clients. And we've got a very robust product pipeline across all of our various types of
value-added services, and we're optimistic about the ability to continue to grow that business.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Jennifer Como
Head of Investor Relations, Visa, Inc.
And with that, we'd like to thank you for joining us today. If you have additional questions, please feel free to call
or e-mail our Investor Relations team. Thanks again, and have a great day.



  Disclaimer
  The information herein is based on sources we believe to be reliable but is not guaranteed by us and does not purport to be a complete or error-free statement or summary of the available data.
  As such, we do not warrant, endorse or guarantee the completeness, accuracy, integrity, or timeliness of the information. You must evaluate, and bear all risks associated with, the use of any
  information provided hereunder, including any reliance on the accuracy, completeness, safety or usefulness of such information. This information is not intended to be used as the primary basis
  of investment decisions. It should not be construed as advice designed to meet the particular investment needs of any investor. This report is published solely for information purposes, and is
  not to be construed as financial or other advice or as an offer to sell or the solicitat ion of an offer to buy any security in any state where such an offer or solicitation would be illegal. Any
  information expressed herein on this date is subject to change without notice. Any opinions or assertions contained in this i nformation do not represent the opinions or beliefs of FactSet
  CallStreet, LLC. FactSet CallStreet, LLC, or one or more of its employees, including the writer of this report, may have a position in any of the securities discussed herein.

  THE INFORMATION PROVIDED TO YOU HEREUNDER IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, FactSet CallStreet, LLC AND ITS LICENSORS,
  BUSINESS ASSOCIATES AND SUPPLIERS DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE SAME, EXPRESS, IMPLIED AND STATUTORY, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
  LAW, NEITHER FACTSET CALLSTREET, LLC NOR ITS OFFICERS, MEMBERS, DIRECTORS, PARTNERS, AFFILIATES, BUSINESS ASSOCIATES, LICENSORS OR SUPPLIERS WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY
  INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION DAMAGES FOR LOST PROFITS OR RE VENUES, GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE,
  SECURITY BREACHES, VIRUSES, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, USE, DATA OR OTHER INTANGIBLE LOSSES OR COMMERCIAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF ANY OF S UCH PARTIES IS ADVISED
  OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSSES, ARISING UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE INFORMATION PROVIDED HEREIN OR ANY OTHER SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF.

  The contents and appearance of this report are Copyrighted FactSet CallStreet, LLC 2023 CallStreet and FactSet CallStreet, LLC are trademarks and service marks of FactSet CallStreet, LLC. All
  other trademarks mentioned are trademarks of their respective companies. All rights reserved.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20
1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com                                                                                                                       Copyright © 2001-2023 FactSet CallStreet, LLC
