# Eric Schmidt on the Robotics Race, Singularity Timeline, and Energy Shortage | 241

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DpwmmXmzvfo
Show: Moonshots (Peter Diamandis)
Transcript method: youtube auto-captions (VTT)
Ingested: 2026-04-28

---

We're living through a historic moment right now. The next thing that's really interesting and terrifying also is recursive self-improvement, but we don't have it yet. What we do have I keep asking my friends, when does the asymptote arrive and when does the curve slow down? It is actually true that there is a limit to our craziness. We have not found it yet and that's the great thing frankly about America. The American competitor, not enemy, but competitor is China. They have lots of money. They're very, very smart. Their work ethic is equal or stronger than ours and they dominate key industries. But at the moment it sure looks to me like the robotic hardware of China is the winner. I don't want to lose the robotic revolution in my view the way we lost the electric vehicle revolution at least on the low end. It's possible, but it requires Now that's a moon shot, ladies and gentlemen. Eric, do you remember the first time we met? Yes, Larry Page introduced me to you because he was on your board. &gt;&gt; Yes. Yeah, so I got a call from Eric out of the blue, which was a great honor. And and said Larry says I should meet you. When are you going to be down here in or up here in San Francisco? I was in LA and I said how about tomorrow? &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Typical Peter. And I remember something which was so I love the story. We sat down to lunch at Charlie's Cafe. Um and of course I'm running a nonprofit and my mission is always raising capital for nonprofit. And so we sit down to lunch and before we get started you said Peter, so what is your highest level of of giving a membership? And I said well Eric, it's our vision circle for $2.5 million and you go, okay, I'm in. Now let's have a conversation. &gt;&gt; I'll buy them all. It was it was crazy. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Oh, there you go. But you know, somehow you have the reason when we spoke, the reason I wanted to come here is this has become the epicenter of the abundance movement. And the abundance movement is correct. That's the important thing. Thank you. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; [applause] &gt;&gt; Um I just want to thank you for all the support you've given myself, X Prize all these years. So grateful for that. So I'll start with a a question that I'd love to hear you expand on, which is we're living through a historic moment right now. Right? Um could you define the moment that we're in and give us sort of a a state of the union of what's going on in AI? We're 10 or 15% into the impacts of this. And you can see it. You can feel it. And some of it will happen, some of it will take longer, right? So for example, hardware takes longer than software. So that robots take longer than digital systems on traditional hardware, things like that. Um we've not um the next thing that's really interesting and terrifying also is recursive self-improvement. &gt;&gt; Mhm. It's not happening yet. And so it's easy to convince yourself that you're going to have human agents sorry, computer agents that are human-like completely within a year or two. We don't have the science for that yet. People are working on it. I can describe how I think it'll play out. But we don't have it yet. What we do have is reasoning systems that are perfect partners for human beings for good and bad, right? And that has a lot of implications. So if we stop today, which we're not and it's not stoppable or controllable by any government or any single individual or corporation, we would still have advanced humanity because of these reasoning agents. How fast do you imagine this is going to accelerate? Um the there's a thing which I call the San Francisco consensus and the reason I call it is cuz everyone in San Francisco believes this. Uh everyone I know anyway, which is that it it it's easy to understand. Uh this is the year of agents, which we can discuss why agents will take over everything this year. During this year the scaling of the use of agents and reasoning will sort of grow at this enormous rate. Everybody's out of hardware, everyone's out of electricity. It's a real boom, right? It's like the biggest boom I've seen and I've been through three or four of these in my career. the in this thinking once you have recursive self-improvement where the system can begin to improve itself, you have intelligence learning on its own and it will in this argument, it will learn faster than we can cuz we're biologically limited. And the way this is expressed in San Francisco and I'll give a simple example. You have a tech company with a thousand fantastic AI researchers. Um so one day they turn on AI research that is an AI research agent. Well, how many AI research agents do you have? Well, as many as you're limited by electricity, right? You don't have to feed them, they don't need housing, there's no more housing in San Francisco, you know, all that kind of stuff. Right? You don't have those problems. You don't have an HR department for them, if you will. Uh and you don't have to pay them, you just have to feed them electricity. So how many could you have? Well, maybe a maybe a million of these agents. Now in AI the way you determine you've made progress is you have clear metrics that the reasoning or testing or whatever the evaluation framework is better, right? So that's what happens. So in that scenario the slope goes like this because you're already at this slope, then you add more people, then you get the agents and you go like this and this is essentially a super intelligence moment. The belief in San Francisco is this occurs within two to three years. The evidence in favor goes something like this. Claude code came out a couple months ago, the the latest one, Opus whatever it is. What was it? &gt;&gt; 1.6, yes, thank you. And everyone I know in the Bay Area that's doing software says it was 80/20, now it's 20/80. &gt;&gt; Mhm. The best analysis I can come up with is it's not the Claude code part, it's that the that the underlying LLM can produce more reasoning over time, better quality tokens over time. It's a deeper thinker, Mhm. right? And all the labs now are competing for that. This is not just the size of the context window, it's actually the reasoning skill and the length of which it can think. It can just think longer and produce more stuff, right? I watched this stuff when I was I moved to the the Bay Area when I was 21 and I was a programmer in high school way back when. And I was pretty good programmer. And I watch what it does and I go, my god, I'm over, you know? There's not a thing that I could do that it cannot do. So when they wrote a C compiler in rust I got it's over, you know, like declare suc So I think [laughter] part of this part of this is because the people who are building it are also seeing the diminution of their own skill. They're being forced to go from programmers, which is what I'm very proud to have been, to being the the director of a programming system, Mhm. &gt;&gt; right? And the most likely scenario, by the way, there's a lot of implications for this. One is that it's always been true, speaking as your local arrogant programmer, that the very top programmers were worth 10 times more than the ones right below. There's something &gt;&gt; special about the mathematical reasoning skills of programmers. Those people will become more valuable, not less valuable, because these systems need to be controlled by humans at the moment. Those people will be capable of grasping the parallelization and activities of this. It also means that you're going to have, in my view, a relatively small number of very large companies. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. And this is a big deal. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. And a very large number of very small companies cuz you don't need as many people. And you're watching that play out this month. Mhm. I mean this all happened in the last three I got I one I was in one startup I'm involved with. I was talking to the programmer who was, you know, perfectly perfectly brilliant young man. And I said, well, what's the truth? He said, well, here's what I do. Um he's working on UIs of various kinds and I said, I write the spec of what I want and then I write a test function, an evaluation function Mhm. and then I turn it on. I said, what time? And he goes, 7:00 in the evening. And I go, okay, what do you then do? Well, he has dinner with his wife and he goes to sleep. And I said, do you wake up? He said, no, I sleep very well. &gt;&gt; When does it finish? Oh, 4:00 in the morning. Mhm. And then he gets up, has breakfast, you know, does whatever he does and then he sees what's been invented. I mean it's mind-boggling. And and the stupid example I used with this young man, this is what the power of these systems are. If you can define the evaluation function and you can let it run and if you have enough hardware, you're inventing worlds. I mean this stuff would have taken me 6 months and 10 programmers at Google to do the same thing and this poor guy's sleeping. It's so funny you say that cuz I was literally backstage, they said Eric Schmidt's coming now and I have my lid open on my Mac and I'm trying to get the jobs onto the cloud so I can close the lid cuz if you close the lid it'll break the jobs. So I've got these six concurrent Claude 4.6 &gt;&gt; open. &gt;&gt; can you know, it's like important what you're doing. Tony interrupt for me. You're important, too, you know. No, it it's it's crazy cuz when we got together in Davos just what 2 months ago, uh it was in this kind of autocomplete mode. You'd write the code and then it would help you get it done. You're about 10 times more efficient, but you're still babysitting it. Now, literally it's working right now. When I get off stage, it will have solved six problems that I launched. And And and I appreciate the excitement in the industry, but I can tell you when I was I used to work on BSD. I basically worked at Berkeley on Unix at Bell Labs and at BSD Unix. And we programmers invent what they need. And so we invented the first email system and the first messaging system. And nobody thought about it. It was like, well, we just need this thing. Yeah. So one key thing to understand about digital intelligence is the first inventors are the people who are solving problems of themselves who are programmers. Mhm. Right? You shouldn't be surprised by this. You should have expected this. The other thing that's interesting about programming is it's um it's both scale free, which means there's no no particular limitations except electricity. You don't need a lot of data and you already have GitHub and the equivalents. And it's also a fairly limited language set. So the number of language components, if you will, compared to human language is less. Smaller language, clear objective function, all you need is electricity. Yep. Now, how far can this go? It'll get to the point where you don't have the ability to do completely new things. Yeah. Isn't it Isn't it really quaint and crazy to think that we can sit here and say, yeah, I wrote a ton of code when I was younger. No one will ever do that again after the end of this year. It'll be like riding a horse, you know, be like quaint skills that we all used to have. No, but I do have a proposal for universities. Those of you who are associated with universities, you should stop everything else you're doing in the university right now and design a course for freshman men and women uh who starting in September, which is a prompt engineering class. Why Why Why university? Why not high school? God, you're so aggressive, Peter. &gt;&gt; Let's start with universities. You can improve my idea. I I thought 18-year-olds would be would be young enough. Maybe you think it's younger. Here's the most important thing. Spend Spend Spend a quarter or a semester. The first thing they learn in university is how to use these tools. Universities are completely opposed to my idea, as usual. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Because it violates every one of their tenets. But if you think about the student, and I mean every student, liberal arts, you know, math, whatever, they're going this platform will be the expression platform for their art, their music, their writing, and so forth. Why wouldn't you teach them immediately? Peter, improve my proposal. No, I I just I just feel like we're that AI is going to impact every student in high school today. Yeah. And that they're living an unnatural life by not engaging with it. And when they hit universities, for those that still exist, um Well, plus your kids are that age, and so they're literally right now doing exactly what you're describing. So &gt;&gt; Peo- People here who have teenagers, you know what I'm talking about cuz they're all in it already. So So I think you're that's an improvement to my argument. The- There's a problem of age restriction. Uh you really have to think about vulnerable teenagers with this technology. Um &gt;&gt; [clears throat] &gt;&gt; I did some some analysis of where the real problems are with this stuff. Um a simple summary is that at some point there will be jobs impact from this stuff. We're seeing it in software and we're seeing it in certain customer service industries, not across the board. At some point that will happen. That's an issue. Another one is how do we as a country maintain our moral values while we're also racing against China? Another one is the impact on um uh young people. It is not okay for 13-year-olds to be committing suicide because of an LLM. It's just not okay. It should It's It's It needs to be addressed. It needs to be addressed right now. For sure. Uh and there's all sorts of other issues. The other one I came up with was in agent orchestration. Agents can be combined. I've always been worried that when you put the agents together, especially if they're from non uh non-compatible vendors, you get unpredictable effects. Yeah. So So these are problems to be solved. So we herald the future and we solve the problems that it brought. So we're we're going to talk about China and government and jobs. But before we do that, um I want to say I'm I'm in this savor the moment's kind of mode right now because I feel like the world to a year from today will be nothing like the world today and all everything we're doing right now, I've enjoyed so much for so long and I just want to savor the moment, but reminisce for 1 minute about the fact that while you were running Google, the transformer got invented there. The TPU got invented there. Demis Hassabis solved protein folding, which is now universally used. You know, do Does the work in I think it's Does the work in an hour that used to take a PhD student 4 years 4 years. &gt;&gt; It's like 300 million times more efficient. Um all of that and all the diaspora from that, all the people working in the field in San Francisco, as you mentioned, they all were your people. Yeah. And so you were there at the creation of everything we're experiencing right now. Do you think anything like that profoundly strikes you about that moment? I mean, did you even realize at the time that it was still I think I think when you're making history, you typically don't know it. Um I give a lot of credit to Larry and Sergey. Because they were ahead of me. I'm I'm an operating CEO and they pushed pushed and pushed for excellence. And I'll give you an example. In the early years of Google, Larry would My favorite interaction was one day I said, we need to hire some people doing Java. And Larry and Sergey said, this is the stupidest idea we have ever heard. And And I could never tell with them whether they were being serious or not or they were just joking with me. But their argument was that real programmers were programming one level lower. Today Google has many thousands of of it. But they But they were so precise and so um driven to excellence in technology, Yeah. right? That I could not uh fool them. I couldn't market around them. I needed to have the technical expert. And they say, oh, that's boring. Don't do that. That's another one of your ideas. Right? We want a new idea. Wow. And I give them a lot of credit for it. &gt;&gt; But what about the TPU in particular? Like that to me cuz I I didn't even hear about it until much later. And it takes years to to build design and build your own internal chips. And now it's it's about to explode. I don't know how much is public or not, but it's it's just Well, so the TPU version one was essentially a matrix multiplier of a particular kind. When they went to version two, they changed the algorithm in a complicated way. And it's particularly good for inference. Whether it's brilliance or just luck, those decisions made 10 years ago set up the TPU as the perfect inference engine. And for everybody's benefit, inference is what the reasoning tech steps that I'm describing on. So Google is particularly well positioned. As you know, Nvidia purchased Groq um for the reason of getting that inner &gt;&gt; Yeah, trying to catch up to what you thought of 10 years ago. &gt;&gt; interesting about Nvidia, if you look at them, I was looking at the Rubin architecture. They managed to do Nvidia managed to do what Intel could never do. Intel could never get control of the complete server architecture. And they tried. Nvidia has managed to build real supercomputers that you can really buy with enough time and money and so forth. And it will really be delivered to your to your And And it just do the whole thing. These are major industrial achievements. And that's why both companies will do incredibly well. Right, for that reason. Eric, in the in the AI exponential growth right now, talk [clears throat] to me about where the constraints are. You were in Congress talking about energy, uh chips, um people, capital. Where are the constraints right now? Well, it's It's interesting. I started a data center company with my friends. Um there's a uh the In my testimony, I said there was an estimated 92 gigawatts shortage of power in America in the next between now and 2030. And uh by reference, a nuclear power plant is about 1.5 gigawatts. So it's about 60 nuclear plants and we're doing essentially zero or one, right? Depending on how you count. So I got interested in the question of what's the real resource constraint in in America? And it's electricity. Mhm. We have the universities. We have the smart people. We have the economics. And we have these amazing finance people who will give all of us billions and billions of dollars on a wing and a prayer. I mean, there's no country where the finance people are sufficiently crazy to do that. It's not true in China. It's not It's certainly not true in Europe. And these guys are incredibly jealous of the American financial system. So I always start Thank you to the finance people for funding our dreams whether they work or not, right? Thank [laughter] you. Uh &gt;&gt; So So the There There's usually a retort at this point where people say, well, the algorithms will ultimately require less energy. I am sure that that is true. There is this property that is the as the power as the power of the hardware goes up, as the algorithms become more efficient, you don't need less power, you need even more power and even more computers because we discover new uses. Yeah. Jevons paradox. &gt;&gt; It's called Jevons paradox. Yeah. And so I think that uh be- because humans have trouble with exponentials, everyone says, oh, well, in 6 to 9 months, it'll will the bubble and you know, so forth and so on. There's no sign of this. We've been I I I and a team have been working on this for years. The the ultimate law the ultimate essentially scaling laws are not done yet. asymptote arrive, and when does the curve slow down? We've not seen it yes yet. There will be one, right? It is actually true that there is a limit to our craziness. We have not found it yet. And we're running to the wall. And that's the great thing, frankly, about America. &gt;&gt; You think you think it's a limit to the capital, or a limit to if you just add more and more and more scale and parameters, something just doesn't work? Well, the first question is is there a limit to the capital available? Um a gigawatt of power corresponds to about 50 billion dollars of hardware, software, data centers. It's on the order of, depending on what numbers you use, okay? So, 100 gigawatts is do the math. Yeah. Um can we raise 5 trillion dollars over 5 years? Yeah. That's the strength of America. Could we double that? Mm, you know, we're we're we're getting the data center build out is 1% of the GDP of America growth right &gt;&gt; we're back to a power program. &gt;&gt; Right. Well, thank you. And the current estimate of electricity use um in America is that electricity the 10% of the electricity in the United States will be used in the data centers. And these data centers These are not the data centers I used to build at Google, which seemed tiny by comparison. They were immense at the time. Yeah. The the standard data center that's being built is on the order of 400 megawatts. These things are plus or minus, and they're about um a half a mile long and about 500 ft wide, right? And they're essentially airflow machines. Take the air, send the air out, uh cool it in the middle uh using typically air cooling, and then they have a water system inside to keep the chips using Nvidia's an example, the um the chips are water-cooled, and also the HBM3E and now the four memories put out so much heat that they have to be water-cooled. The chips are 2 kilowatts. I mean, this is insane. These things will kill you. You want to hear something truly astounding and funny in hindsight? When you bought DeepMind, everybody thought it was like 800 million bucks or something. &gt;&gt; 600 million. 600 million. Bargain. Everyone thought, why on earth would you waste 600 million dollars on this zero revenue AI? All it does is play Go. And then years later it came out that the acquisition paid for itself just by controlling the air conditioning more efficiently in the data centers. The entire acquisition price was paid off, and that became the AI that's changing the world today. &gt;&gt; And that one go The credit of that one actually goes to Larry Page. Larry had studied AI when he was a Stanford graduate student, and he We always deferred to him in this thing. And he said, this is the best team. Um and I think Elon and Larry competed over it. There was some complicated kerfuffle there. Yeah. And so um Jeff Dean, who's the the chief scientist, went over, and then he and I basically, you know, finished the deal. And I still remember, you know, it there in one floor, you know, these sort of British people, and uh led by a sort of Greek British person, Demis. Yeah. And they were smart, but Google's full of other smart people. To give you an example, in 2016 um so Demis announces that we're going to win the game of Go. I figured, well, And by the way, they're at this point they're a separate group. We've We've let them alone cuz they have to grow and figure out what they're doing and all that. Okay. And this is the patience of capital. We could let them do that. We didn't require that they do anything. And so he goes, um I'm going to go, and I said, well, I'm going to come, too. And I said, okay. So, I fly to Korea, and it's all one floor, and I go and I meet the team that's been winning the game. And of course, these all of these Koreans They're all very excited about this cuz they know they're going to beat the computer. And so, the the Koreans are in one room, I'm in another. I go to the Korean room, and they're all saying, you know, we're going to beat beat the crap out of this Google Google Google group. Then I go into the Google room, and it's very quiet, and there's a monitor. And there's an basically what I now understand is an RL prediction mechanism of whether we're winning or not. Yeah, cool. Okay? And it starts at 50/50. So, I watch I go listen to the Koreans talk for a while, and then I go watch the screen, and it goes to 51%. Okay? And then it goes to 52%. And then David, who is the guy who's the architect, says, well, we just planned for it to get to infinity. &gt;&gt; Okay. So, basically, it's a it's the abundance theory. So, it's just And &gt;&gt; And everyone is All the humans are crushed. &gt;&gt; Yeah, they're all crying. The DeepMind people say, Yeah, yeah. They were They were supposed to. Yeah, yeah. [laughter] Welcome. And And then I understood the genius of the DeepMind people. And you can see this today with Gemini. Gemini 3 is probably the broadest of the um of of the non-Chinese systems in terms of its depth. And because it's multilingual, multimodal, and so forth. &gt;&gt; so much so many moments in your life are just turning points in history, and I don't know if you realize them in in the moment, but that was one of the last moments where, you know, we humans used to look for challenges where the computer could try to catch up, like chess. And then I think Go was the end point. Go And And we knew that, by the way. We understood that Go the game of Go was sort of incomputable by normal algorithms. &gt;&gt; Yeah. There was lots of math that said you couldn't solve it. And so it was the combina- They They came up with a two-tree model with two different RL trees. So, one of these other thing I learned about these these things is it's not just write me a Go program that will win the game. You actually have to understand the game and so forth. So, they took the same team. They They got bored with Go having won. So, then they took the same team and had them work on protein folding. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And in protein folding, they took a protein whole bunch of protein scientists, which I know Can we just think about the genius of that? Like nobody would ever connect the game of Go &gt;&gt; Demis. solving all of biology. But But Demis Demis had always wanted to work on this. Larry and Sergey were very interested in this, and protein folding is the perfect problem because you had um you got a constant &gt;&gt; end point. You got a defined end point. So, what happens is people get excited about AI, but you need to have a validation function because these things don't have common sense yet. Yeah. Right? You have to show them what it's got. Ultimately, they produced this thing called AlphaZero, which essentially self-learns. Let's talk about data centers in space. Um I'm in favor of it. &gt;&gt; Eight Eight, nine months ago, no one was discussing this. &gt;&gt; I mean, all of a sudden &gt;&gt; know why I'm in favor of them? I do, but you [laughter] you can mention it as you wish. Um but all of a sudden, everybody's talking about them. What are your thoughts? I'm part owner of a rocket company, and we need &gt;&gt; Which I love. I love having you come into the space community. It's &gt;&gt; You understand this far, far better than I. &gt;&gt; It's It's uh And I've been Rocket science is named that for a reason. Um rocket science is really, really hard. Um what I've And I don't know that much about rockets, although I certainly know how to manage tech people. Um but But I I I think that the opportunity is is large and interesting. There are challenges. There's an issue of getting heat off of Again, you know this much better than I do. Getting heat off of it because you don't have oxygen, and you also have radiation issues. Yeah. Those have to get addressed. &gt;&gt; But it makes the business plan for every rocket company that's large enough, right? The small guys aren't going to launch it, but Relativity Space and uh I and you know, Blue Origin and SpaceX, I mean, I you know, Elon's predictions were, you know, I think a launch per hour to populate the constellation he wanted. Um but do you think technically we're going to get there? Well, the technology is understood. What's interesting about Technically for the for the data centers in space for heat dissipation Yeah, that That technology is understood. Uh to me, it's a business question. Um and the question is what where where should the data center be? Should it be in space with these other issues, but it has other benefits, including infinite power and so forth, Yeah. versus on the ground where you have fiber, and you know, it's not shaking too much. Yeah. I mean, the energy argument says space wins by far, and I think the the cooling is a very big challenge, but I think it's largely figured out now. But then the politics of space You know, one of the turning points in AI history also is you getting in front of Congress and saying, hey, we need to find almost 100 gigawatts. And at the time, it seemed outrageous. And now, of course, it's mainstream, and it looks like, you know, the crazy investors are solving the problem. You They're unleashing of the money is happening. &gt;&gt; American capitalism. Tech industry, I mean, we have another set of problems. Well, if the next frontier is space, then but there's no there's no investment community in space, but there's also no military jurisdiction in space, or maybe there is. I I would have never thought my childhood dreams of going to the moon and Mars and would be fueled by data centers. Um Never. Well, mine can't carry you at the moment, but it can in the future, maybe. Yeah, all the way. I I read an a Time op-ed piece you wrote last night. Um China can dominate the physical AI future, or uh What did you Can you summarize that for us? It was an important conversation. &gt;&gt; the geopolitical context, the And I've said this many times, I'll say it again. competitor, is China. I I think it's By the way, I think it's an important distinction for you to make, so thank you. &gt;&gt; Not Not enemy, competitor. Um and how to understand them as a competitor. They have lots of money. They're very, very smart. Their work ethic is equal or stronger than ours, and they dominate key industries. And I don't know Right? With respect to robotics, we somehow decided it was okay for them to dominate the electric vehicle industry. This was an error. To be very clear, it's an error. Why do you not understand it's an error? Because we don't allow their cars in. Spend some time outside of this country in Chinese cars, trust me. They are real competitors. They've done a great job. As I understand it, China is capable of vertical integration and building these gigafactories at a scale that we can't for all sorts of reasons. That's got to get addressed. So, if you want to compete and I want to compete and win with China and the and the and I compete not enemy. I want us to have the same kind of system. So, in robotics, it turns out robotics, you can understand robots as essentially actuators. These little stepper motors, click click click click click click and a brain. Ignoring the appearance and the Google, you know, eyes and all that kind of stuff. It turns out that the industry of the electric vehicle produces the same kind of motors and the same kind of systems. They have an expertise that we don't. My own view is that at least for very low cost, China is going to win that. And that was what I was trying to say in that piece. And I worry about that. Now, today these are not particularly useful. You know, they're they're fun toys. They're a replacement for the dog if you get mad at your dog. Sorry, I love I love dogs. But you get the idea. So, so we we we need to address this. But at the moment, it sure looks to me of China is the winner at the low end. I'm not talking about the high end. I'm not talking about the expensive stuff. I'm not talking about industrial robots. And if you're confused, watch the Unitree robot dance with the humans. Yeah. That came out about a month ago. &gt;&gt; Unitree here in the tech hub and the co-founder will be on stage with us later today. Pay Pay attention to them. They're they're very very impressive. And I spent some time with them last time I was in China. And they're one of many. And the way China works is that they have brutal competition. Brutal brutal It's like unbelievable. I was talking to my friend, we teach at Stanford, and he said, you know, in China, we don't have the board dinner. We have a 2-hour meeting. We get back to work. And there's no preamble. We're not, you know, we don't say hello, how are you? How's the family? That kind of stuff. We're boom boom. Right? It's just cultural. Yeah. And the work the the work ethic, the precision, and the scale that is possible in China is a real competitor. I don't want to lose the robotic revolution in my view the way we lost the electric vehicle revolution at least on the low end. Interesting. Cuz I had the Chinese model very much has a well-built-out supply chain with many vendors in the loop. But we we've been on a worldwide tour of all of the humanoid robotics companies. And uh just like coincidence, I guess. But when you look at the gigafactory and look at Elon's vertical integration and also Brad Adcock, it figures same thing. It's all vertically integrated. Why? Well, cuz there's no vendor. Yeah. I I have no choice. I have So, so it appears that to get to again, we're in this is the abundance group. This is the abundance club. The way you get to abundance is you drive prices down and you get vertically integrated. And Elon in our country pioneered that to his credit. Yeah. Right? You know, the old joke about Google was we would build anything including the buildings. Well, Elon is actually doing that. Yeah. You know, he And why? Not because he's insane, but because he actually That's how you drive cost down. Yeah. He He truly believes, and I'd love to get your your take on this. He truly believes that the the robot building the robot is imminent. And I didn't get it until we toured the gigafactory and I realized that almost all of it's automated already. It's just the last piece is the human controlling a few knobs. And that, you know, the humanoid robot can actually do. &gt;&gt; Let me define the boundary cuz it's important. Let's use batteries, for example. Batteries are predictable, straightforward manufacturing processes at huge scale. Right? Things like that will have gigafactories. One of the questions and I of course used LLMs to do my deep research as a new person in the rocket company was how much of the human labor to build a rocket could be replaced by robots. The current limit, which of course will change, is in our company, we have these extraordinarily talented essentially assembly people. And they're they're they're more than welders and they're more than, you know, mechanics. They understand precisely how the little the tubes and so forth and so on go together and they use precise tolerances. That kind of assembly is beyond current robots. I'm sure it will eventually show up, but not for a long time. &gt;&gt; People don't realize the majority cost of a rocket is labor. Exactly. It's not material. You'll listen to this person. &gt;&gt; when they get inside the rocket, they understand what they're doing and they see what's wrong and they use human judgment. We don't have those systems yet. Yeah. Now, perhaps we will in the future or perhaps this will be one of the last things to go. Right? But at the moment, high-skilled mechanical labor is very important. Low-skilled labor of any kind gets swept up. Well, so both of those, there's AI self-improvement and then there's robotics building robots building robots self-improvement. Both of those loops. And I I we we talk a lot about closed loops being If I can interrupt you. Yeah, please. The term I like to use is learning loops. Learning loops. In a business, try to figure out all the different learning loops and then try to accelerate the learning. Fastest learner wins. Sorry. Well, I'm going to lead the witness here a little bit. But if you if you asked Daniela Rus over at CSAIL a year ago, Erik Brynjolfsson at Stanford a year ago, do we need one more big breakthrough in AI core science or will scaling what we've already got lead to self-improvement and then that will be all we need to get to AGI &gt;&gt; and then self-improvement. That that I spent the last week doing RSI reviews, recursive self-improvement reviews. The scientists do not agree on the exact approach to work yet. So, I think it's too early to know that question. There's evidence that it will work. There are tests in the lab that show it. But they show it in limited cases that are kind of demos. Right? Real recursive self-improvement is the following. Start now, learn everything, discover things, and tell me what you learned. Yeah. That query doesn't work yet. We're seeing all of the frontier labs sort of constantly leapfrog each other, right? I mean, literally every week it's the new model. &gt;&gt; Unbelievable. And it's it's extraordinary. And do you imagine they're all converging towards the same endpoint or is anyone going to pull ahead? So, if you go back to this question of capital, how many how much room is there in the world for these companies? How many can there be? I'm going to make some numbers up. And these are made up. I think there's at least 10 in the world at this scale. I think there'll be a few in in China. I think the majority will be in the United States, the usual suspects most likely. I think there'll be a They They might be one or two in Europe. Mhm. Depending their electricity costs are a problem. There might be one in India, right? There's not going to be one in Russia because of the the war and so forth and so on. So, can the world accommodate 10? Yes. Do they track together? I don't think so. One of the key things to understand about China is China's approach, which has produced DCV4, Quinn, Kimmy 2, Kimmy version 3, etc. and more coming, is it's all open source open weights. They've managed to do this with our chip limitations against them, which annoy them no end. Shows you how clever they are. They're also the Chinese strategy is a bit different. It's less central computing and much more edge computing, which has to do with enveloping their Chinese customers with AI around them all all the time. We're much more AGI ASI centered, which is fine. So, the the patterns are diverging. Within the companies, it's it's it's a jumble now. But fundamentally, Microsoft and Google have these large cash flow streams from enterprise, so they can fund that. Yeah. Anthropic has done a fantastic job of raising money from those other companies to and they use, as you know, Google TPUs. And they've become the sort of leading player in this sort of Claude API within the enterprise agent And and OpenAI is now shifting a bit of its strategy to include the the new things it's doing. I don't think we can predict. But the key thing to understand is that they need so much money. Right? I mean, you look at what Sam is trying to raise. They need so much money that they're forced into these situations where they have to win those battles. And they're busy winning them. I mean, this is all good. I think it's the it's We In a year, we'll know better the answer to your question. I two questions I want to close this out with that I think are important. Um You made a a statement a couple of times, once in our podcast, once uh elsewhere that regarding AI safety, the world may need to have a modest Chernobyl-like death event in order for us to wake up. do you still believe that's the case? Yeah, and by the way, I'm not endorsing that. I'm I'm doing it as a descriptive, not as a as a proscriptive. What are the real dangers of this? There are biological dangers. I mean, there's obviously the dangers of of kids and democracies and so forth. But like let's think about like a biological attack, a nuclear attack that's spawned by these things. It may take such a tragedy, hopefully a small one, to awaken the world to understand that these things are they do have negative power. And so I can imagine, I'm making this up, that there's some bad thing that happened and then all of the leaders, China, the US, we all have a meeting and we basically say like what are we going to do? You know, we're in brutal competition, we hate each other, you know, I don't like you, you know, you don't speak the same language, blah blah blah, but we are all in it together, right? Over this issue. My sense is that will happen, but I don't know when. We had we had a congressperson on this stage last year and one of the crowd asked, how much time do you spend talking about AI in Congress? And he said, well, it's definitely way less than 1%. Yeah. And so without that wake-up call, I don't see how you have &gt;&gt; I mean governments, I spend lots of time with governments. Governments are super busy, right? And they're and they're driven by political things, they're driven by by in at least in democracies by by political sentiment. I'd like us as a nation to focus on the following. I want to win the AI race. I want us to do whatever it takes to do that. This government is doing a very good job of making energy permitting more accessible. The rate at which data centers are getting built is now accelerated, solving the grid problems. I also want lots of immigrants in our country because those immigrants, at least the high stakes high skills immigration, is what we need because we need the the smartest people in the world on our side to build these systems. This is a unique moment in history, right? &gt;&gt; I would take us home on a positive note. So, you know, you said we're going to get to ASI at some point, whether it's 2 years out, 5 years out, some place in this next decade. So, the question is, what steps can we take to steer artificial superintelligence towards abundance, towards uplifting and in alignment with humanity? You know, to make this abundance thesis materialize, what's your advice to us, companies, governments? There's an over-reliance in our society on people like me to work on this. Why don't we have the smartest people in politics, history, human psychology, governance, ethics working together to make sure this stuff stays in human values and human alignment? I want the system that we build in America to reflect American values. The values of freedom and freedom of speech freedom of association, all those things you learned in college and excuse me, in elementary school and and high school. They're still important to our nation. They're the enablers for the next generation of our children and grandchildren. I I desperately want that and I don't want America to ever get on the wrong side of that battle. There's lots of people working on this. Lots of people understand the technical details. I happen to run an informal group that discusses this every week. it's possible, but it requires political will and it requires an understanding that this can be done without screwing up the genius of America, right? In other words, I'm not suggesting slowing anything down. I'm you said it so well, shaping it. Making sure we don't cross lines. Like I already mentioned the teenage sorry, the underage kids problem. That's a line we can't cross. We got to solve that problem. There are others.