# Uber Founder on AI, Risk, and Building the Future w/ Travis Kalanick | EP #164

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IAGHlZpSbMs
Show: Moonshots (Peter Diamandis)
Transcript method: youtube auto-captions (VTT)
Ingested: 2026-04-28

---

Will robots and AI replace all of our jobs? If somebody wants to go and make a thing that doesn't make people's lives better, they should count on failing. In your 7-year tenure, 0 to 70 countries, 5 billion rider trips, 7.5 billion in revenues, a $70 billion valuation. I didn't think of it exactly like this at the time, but basically I was digitizing network for the physical world. When you're trying to do something disruptive, there's a massive immune reaction that occurs. One of the best ways to deal with resistance to change is to build a massive amount of trust with those you're asking to change or that you're asking to bring along with that change because then you can turn your adversaries into advocates. Nobody's in control of the world. So, you have to see into where the world is going and build for that world. Now, that's a moonshot, ladies and gentlemen. This is a group of entrepreneurs running 10 million to10 billion dollar companies. Their focus is on uh on getting clarity on their massive transformative purpose and then using that for a a moonshot to do something extraordinary to go from success to significance in the world. Yeah. And when we've talked about, you know, understanding the process of reinventing an industry, uh, transforming it, making it efficient, I think there are only a handful of individuals that make that possible or have done that successfully. I want to read the numbers on Uber uh just as an example because I want to dive into the the founding of Uber and then obviously what you learned and building Cloud Kitchen as well. But in your seven-year tenure, 0 to 70 countries. That's pretty impressive. 5 billion writer trips. I mean that's Yeah. I don't know where that number came from. It came It came from uh Chat GPT or some site like that. So when when I left when I left so mid 2017 we're probably doing I don't know 13 million a week. Okay. So that would be like seven weeks for every billion. So maybe that you know 7.5 billion in revenues not bad thereabouts. Yeah. Uh well the gross the gross at that time was probably about 50 billion. That would be GMV and then how you calculate revenue from there could be tricky but yeah but uh a $70 billion valuation not bad. Can you take me back to that first of all that founding aha moment and then we talk about purpose as a critical part of building a company that's a moonshot company. Yeah. the the aha moment. Uh I mean it's kind of interesting. So you hear a lot of the founder the what do they call them? Founding founding fables founding there's something along this get the public sort of like generates this whole madeup thing. We I don't we don't have one of those. So um but it sounds like one. So we were uh we were in Paris. We were at uh if you guys remember way back in the day in '08 and09 there was Loi Lam Mur's uh WebSummit. Yes, I think it was called that. Yeah. And I was there in Paris. I was sort of in between gigs. I had sold my recent company to Okami and I didn't know what was next. Uh so I was there with a guy named Garrett Camp and we were walking back before Uber in Paris. you you'd have to walk back. You you would um I want to go faster here, but basically you you had to walk home in Paris back in the day. You go out to dinner, you're walking home. That's just what it was. And so we were on a three mile walk back to our hotel after dinner. And um he said, "Man, I wish we could just push a button and get a ride." That's a prophetic wish. And I'm like, pretty good. And he he was he he's like, "Yeah, let's just go back to San Francisco. We'll make the app. We'll have let's buy 20 S-classes, get 40 drivers in a parking garage, and we're off to the races." I'm like, "Look, there's enough cars out there already. We don't need to buy the cars. We don't need to We don't need to get a parking garage, and we probably don't even need to hire the drivers." And that was kind of the the balance at the beginning was he was the classy and I was the efficiency if that makes sense. Purpose, we talked about this in advance. Uh uh how critical is purpose in in driven in driving sort of a uh a company at this scale. I mean it's super important. I think there's you know you could probably have a whole conference on purpose. Um the so you could take it many different ways. The first is I think every individual like sometimes I'll talk to executives where they're like making the move to the next thing Ideally the one I'm trying to recruit them for and my advice even when I'm not recruiting them is you got to be really self-aware of who you are. M if you get really really self-aware of who you are, then when the next thing comes, you will know when your when your professional soulmate presents itself, you will know. Fascinating. And so, and if you're honest with yourself, yeah, you got to be. So, you got it's like I shouldn't be running Pinterest. Just wouldn't work out, but that's because I know myself. And so um and so if you understand your nature, you need to find a thing that you do that matches that nature. So when we talk about your massive transformative purpose, what wakes you up in the morning, what keeps you going and that as the foundational foundational if you foundation for building a company that Yeah. And then how does that translate then to your team that you build? Well, there's a we before we even get it to is sort of like there's a couple more layers to it, I like to say uh you know my sort of space is digitizing the physical world. But let's say that's the sport that I play that I'm meant to play. Meaning if you play basketball and that's your thing and you're really great at it, don't go play tennis. Yeah. So, you got to know the sport through that self-awareness. You know your sport. Digitizing the physical world. I'd also say innovation at speed and at scale. is the stuff that gets me fired up. And then the final layer is like, who are the people that I'm serving? Whatever you're going to do, you're serving somebody. You should be you should be fundamentally passionate about them and what what what the thing you're going to do is going to do for them. Yeah. Um so so yeah. Yeah. No, and and I think that's when you know just in the nomenclature here, we talk about in your MTP, who are you serving, right? Who do you want to be a hero to? Yeah. Everybody, I hope you're enjoying this episode. You know, earlier this year, I was joined on stage at the 2025 Abundance Summit by a rockstar group of entrepreneurs, CEOs, investors focused on the vision and future for AGI, humanoid robotics, longevity, blockchain, basically the next trillion dollar opportunities. If you weren't at the Abundance Summit, it's not too late. You can watch the entire Abundance Summit online by going to exponentialmastery.com. That's exponentialmastery.com. So you get clarity on that. Yeah. And then you start building an organization. And I guess the challenge is if you're bringing in people who don't share that, you're going to very quickly start going the wrong direction. This is when you get like a culture clash internal is if there are people who don't see things the same way you do at least the values. And look, you know, most of us here have personal relationships of one kind or another. Friends, loved ones, partners in life, the whole thing. And it's very similar. You, you know, opposites can attract, but the core values you need to believe in. You have to share. So, how do you how do you use that as a filter for who you're bringing in? Are you dogmatic about it or are you allowing those who naturally gravitate that way to come in? Um, I mean, those two are, I think, very similar. So, sometimes somebody who doesn't who shouldn't who sometimes a tennis player goes to a basketball court and you're like, yo, whoa, whoa, we don't we don't do rackets here. You know, we have this much larger ball that we we put it in this hoop that's different. Um, so it doesn't have to be a judgment. It's just a an assessment, a factual sort of thing. And so you have to understand what the values are and if the values are the same. And again, it's those things that I just went through. Um, and you this gets codified into sort of what you might call cultural values or things like this. And if your cultural values are really really good, then it becomes really clear who's not supposed to be there. Yeah. And you you don't want to get to that place where it's not supposed to be there. You when somebody comes in, you want to make it work. It doesn't always work, but you want to try to make it work, but it becomes really clear ideally in a recruiting process. And if it if a mistake happens on the way in, it becomes clear super early. Well, this is I play tennis, not basketball. You know, you you said a few minutes ago that you are focused on uh sort of optimization, getting rid of inefficiencies. And is that your sort of your superpower for uh finding opportunities? Well, it it it goes to that digitizing the physical world. So, we know what the digital world is. It's called a computer. Yeah. Right. CPU manipulates the bits, storage stores the bits, network moves bits from point A to point B. These are like the three core computing resources in a computer. But digitizing the physical world, if that become if that's your sport, then you are you've decided that treating atoms like bits is what you do. So you go okay well CPU manipulates the bits. What manipulates atoms? That's manufacturing. Storage stores bits. What stores atoms? That's real estate. Network moves bits from point A to point B. What moves atoms? You're like, that's logistics or transport. So my last company, Uber, I didn't think of it exactly like this at the time, but basically I was digitizing network for the physical world. Digitized transport. Yes. One of the three core computing resources in an atomsbased computer. You're like, well, that's well on its way. It's not all the way done. we need autonomous cars and all of this to really be out there, but it's we've got light at the end of the tunnel, but what about digitized manufacturing and digitized real estate? Um, and so that's how I see what I do. So what I do is I make atomsbased computers. And if you are treating atoms like bits, it will naturally be about efficiency. It's very different than say, oh, I make a social media app. A social media app is going to win when it takes your time, gets your attention, takes your time, and that's how they make money. Adamsbased computers typically are giving you your time back. Yeah. And so that becomes sort of the foundation of what it is I do. Now, we talked this morning about the idea of looking into your business and finding everything that's not been digitized yet and dematerialized yet. Yeah. As somebody is going to eventually do it if it's doable. Yeah. Uh what advice do you have to folks about about doing that? It's it's you know the another other part of it is companies that are born as digital native companies like you bore Uber and those are trying to retrofit themselves. Well I mean these are very different things. So if you are digitizing a business that exists uh let's assume that business is profitable has some sort of competitive mode etc. It's if in some ways the starting point is very straightforward. It's like you just take all the line items where there are humans and you try to find ways to get more leverage on those humans. Um so you start with like customer support uh account management uh any workflow where people are doing things filling in data workflow type stuff. That's the easy starting point. It's not as innovative per se like it doesn't get to the core product but it's sort of how you start surrounding the core if you have something that's not digitized. Um but the radical thinking is is to really digitize it from the inside out is not always the domain of an existing profitable business with a competitive mo usually doesn't have the DNA to do it again. It sometimes does but most of the time does not. I mean we didn't see uh very many other pre-existing transportation companies copy what you did even though you gave a very clear model. Yeah. timing on this. I know Bill Gross uh was here this well here in the with us today but he spoke yesterday morning where one of the talks he's given looking at the most successful companies and the companies that failed and was it their CEO their capital and so forth and his conclusion it's timing. Um that's a and being too early is identical to being wrong. It's worse. Yeah, because you waste a lot of money and time and time. I mean, it's the worst. So, the company I did before Uber uh was like networking software. I I sold it to Okami, but I was like I was probably wrong and too early, which is like the really the worst. So, first four years, no salary. Yeah. I didn't have anything, right? So, I like to say, uh, you know, I actually at some point had socks that said blood, sweat, and ramen, you know. So, um, it will grind you to dust if you're early. And if you're early and wrong, that's that's intense. By the way, please take your, you know, make your questions right. We're going to be going to your questions in a little bit. I really want you have a chance to ask Travis for for his wisdom. Um you hit a key point when you know we the theme of this session is technological convergence but your convergence on the smartphone and you know Google maps and GPS and and the 2008 recession how important was that recession for for this for what for getting the gig economy people willing to to drive I don't think it had I don't think it had much to do with it. Was it the concept Uber tried before you what's this? Did some Did people try? I mean, the main thing that that existed before us was uh there were a couple taxi apps out there. Mhm. But the problem was it was just a broken model. So, a lot of times people when they make they see an opportunity, but they go after it the wrong way. Taking a slice of the taxi market a is sort of very small. Yeah. And B, uh, you are, it's sort of like, you know, when Zingga built on Facebook, it's like you're on you're on somebody else's platform and they can squeeze you and you're basically getting yield optimization from like the 20% that doesn't matter. So if a taxi guy agrees to go pick somebody up, but then gets a call that he doesn't have to pay any commission on or, you know, somebody waving their hand hailing them, you're done. So, the reliability, the quality of the product you're going to be able to offer sucks, which you could say is similar to where online delivery of food is right now. Like the restaurants are like the t Uber Eats or Door Dash on a restaurant is like a it's like a taxi app. You're getting yield optimization on a thing that's built for something else. I remember my first Uber ride um in San Francisco when you were just running the black car service. Yeah. And someone said, "Oh, I was going from a party was let me let me show you this new app." Right. Yeah. And and what's interesting was you didn't try and boil the ocean in the beginning. Uh you began really with the black car in San Francisco. Can you talk about staging a moonshot start, you know, staging a um something that would scale because just that mindset of just let's get it working here right before we grow it and Well, look, we were in San Francisco for a year before we went to our second city. Our second city was New York. Um, and we didn't even do the lowcost product what we call UberX. Uh, we didn't do that till was that must have been early 2013, maybe mid mid 2012 was sort of halfway and then early 2013 was the all all the way. Um, so yeah, getting it right matters. In my current company, there are a couple situations where where we went too big too quick because you can learn the wrong lessons from the last thing. I'm like, oh, this scale is easy. Works. So, I did this thing. It was like uh the acronym was PMD was I didn't basically I didn't want to happen at my current company what happened at Uber which was I we invented this thing and then we had copycats everywhere that we in different countries and continents that we had to then go fight because they copy our thing before we got there. Yeah. Even though we went to so many countries so quickly we got there after the clones got there. Right. So we didn't want that that to happen again. So I I came up with this acronym. It was called PMD, parallel multicontinental deployment. It sounds like a nuclear war. And uh we did it. Uh but we went to some places we shouldn't have gone. Like just so happens you can't make money on kitchens in India. Just not possible. U we also found places that were amazing. So we went to Kuwait. We went to like a lot of places you you wouldn't go. That ended up being we went to Saudi, we went to lots of places that we wouldn't have otherwise gone without that mentality. But yeah, don't go to Indonesia, don't go to India, don't go to Colombia. Those are the main ones. Uh I remember when France made Uber illegal. Um that's my uh you know, don't start a tech company in a country that made Uber illegal was my motto. Um, how important is getting the system, the operation working really button down before you start moving to additional new territories? Yeah, I mean there's a balance. Uh, I mean there's a couple initiatives that I have right now that are like, you know, they talk about the moonshot inside the moonshot, you know, that there's things like that that make the overall thing win. We've got a couple right now that are very much in that category. That balance between when to when to cook it and when to when to scale it is a tricky one. There's a there's a judgment and instinct, but you basically you don't want the overall effort of winning to get this is kind of maybe talogical and kind of obvious. So, I'm not sure it's going to be helpful, but winning to be dragged down because you went too big. Okay. Obviously. So, so you're like, well, what does that mean? So, right now I have this one project where it's still operationally intensive because we haven't gotten the tech right yet. And it's but it's growing. It's perfect. We're like two six-month periods in a row where we grew 6x year over or we grew 6x in that six-month period. Wow. Now, you're low base. Okay. But it means it's 36 times bigger than it was a year ago. Yeah, it's not going to be small for long. When do we push and start expanding? Um, and uh, but I know we'll drown if I don't get those core workflows tight. We're going to drown in ops. Yep. Uh, so there's just we're almost there. We're right about to click in and sort of expand. Scaling something that's broken is not fun. Yeah. I like to say, let's not scale failure is what I say at the office. uh when you're trying to do something disruptive, I mean there's a massive immune reaction that occurs. Uh sometime the immune reaction is within your own organization if people if people have been doing something else all along and then sometimes obviously it's compares how how do you deal with resistance that you had? Uh just general resistance. Yeah. I mean, well, I like to say that um that one of the most important things that innovators do is they are really good at finding valuable unknown truths, things that are true. Mhm. And very valuable that nobody else knows. So, if you create a machine that's finding valuable unknown truths, then you start to know a lot of things other people don't know. And if you know a lot of things other people don't know, you can start doing things that other people can't do. Um, so that's called changemaking. You start to be able to do stuff other people aren't doing, which means you're doing some stuff nobody's seen. So you start doing a lot of it because you're really good at that core thing, which is finding valuable unknown truths. You start doing a lot of it. You're basically in the changemaking business. Mhm. And there is this thing in nature that is everywhere around us. It's called resistance to change. It's in nature. It's nature. It's natural because nature of is a monopoly. And nature abhores change that can cause bad cause harm. So it's a natural mechanism to slow down progress to make sure it's the right kind of progress. Um, and so one of the best ways to deal with resistance to change is to build a massive amount of trust with those you're asking to change or that you're asking to bring along with that change. And so then you really have to have a philosophy around how to build trust while changemaking because then you can turn your adversaries into advocates and you actually will end up moving much faster. So a lot of times people learn again learning the wrong lessons. They're like oh man the Uber thing just go crack some skulls and kick some ass you know. Um but actually the lesson to learn is different which is if you're building if you build trust as you make change you can actually go even further. When I knew you at Uber uh we were talking about that doesn't mean don't crack skulls like still got to do that too. Okay. Just make sure you know. Uh it was about 13 years ago. I had my two kids, my two boys, and I remember at that moment in time, I made a decision to double down on my health. Uh without question, I wanted to see their kids, their grandkids, and really, you know, during this extraordinary time where the space frontier and AI and crypto is all exploding. It was like the most exciting time ever to be alive. And I made a decision to double down on my health. And I've done that in three key areas. The first is going every year for a fountain upload. You know, Fountain is one of the most advanced diagnostics and therapeutics companies. I go there, upload myself, digitize myself about 200 gigabytes of data that the AI system is able to look at to catch disease at inception. You know, look for any cardiovascular, any cancer, any neurogenerative disease, any metabolic disease. These things are all going on all the time and you can prevent them if you can find them at inception. So super important. So fountain is one of my keys. I make that available to the CEOs of all my companies, my family members cuz you know health is a new wealth. Uh but beyond that uh we are a collection of 40 trillion human cells and about another 100 trillion bacterial cells, fungi, vy and we you know don't understand how that impacts us. And so I use a company and a product called Viome. And Viome uh has a technology called Metatanscripttoics. It was actually developed uh in New Mexico, the same place where the nuclear bomb was developed as a biodefense weapon. And their technology is able to help you understand what's going on in your body to understand which bacteria are producing which proteins and as a consequence of that what foods are your superfoods that are best for you to eat or what foods should you avoid right what's going on in your oral microbiome so I use their testing to understand my foods understand my medicines understand my supplements and biome really helps me understand from a biological and data standpoint what's best for me. And then finally, you know, feeling good, being intelligent, moving well is critical. But looking good, when you look yourself in the mirror, saying, you know, I feel great about life is so important, right? And so a product I use every day, twice a day, is called One Skin, developed by four incredible PhD women that found this 10 amino acid peptide that's able to zap scenile cells in your skin and really help you stay youthful in your look and appearance. So for me, these are three technologies I love and I use all the time. Uh I'll have my team link to those in the show notes down below. Please check them out. Anyway, hope you enjoyed that. Now, back to the episode. We were in the midst of working on a Uber X-P prize for flying cars. Yeah. Um, and that was part of your initiative as well as the autonomous car program at Uber. Yeah. Uh, do you wish do you think it was the right thing for those not to continue? uh or do you think they would have had gotten uh gotten the technology going faster? What are your thoughts? I know it's I know it's retroactive. No, it's okay. It's okay. Uh look, they they they killed the autonomous car project we had going on. Yeah. Uh at the time, we're really only behind Whimo, but probably catching up and we're going to pass them in short order. Uh so my guess is there's probably some you can look back 2020 and say maybe you know I wasn't running the company when that happened but you know you could say wish we had an autonomous ride sharing product right now that would be great uh yeah I think the same thing here um I think it's it you know it's there's still some lack of clarity on where flying cars or let's say at VOL all like vertical takeoff and landing like when how does it exactly play out? But it's pretty clear if you can get from here to there at 150 mph. Uh you know, and it's kind of like a very fast commute. I think it changes the game in a lot of ways. And I think there are companies that are doing some interesting stuff. I think Joby's probably one of the more Joby and Archer and a number of them. I mean it's packet switched humans where you're moving people through. Sure. Well, this what you just did, right? That's network for the physical world. Yeah, you just went into Adams based computer, right? Yeah. One last question before we go to your questions here, so get them ready. Um, iterating under pressure. I mean, one of the things that you fabulously did was iterate the company, the models, the products, the services, and so forth. You talk about how important iteration is. Um, yeah, I mean that's I guess that's like how important is breathing, you know? It's like um so then it's really what how do you breathe really well? What's your what's your mantra? Okay. So how do you but yeah so so then it's like um how hard did you push your teams to iterate or were you the one you know sort of diving the iteration? No I mean I yeah the my companies my companies generally run in an empowered way with checkpoints. uh we would we like to say let builders build but you need alignment and accountability in order to empower. Um so iteration uh look I yeah there's a lot to be said there. I'm trying to think of some nice pathy things to say that I figured it out. Um but but it's you've got to you know it's our three cultural values at my current company are truth, trust, and passion. So you you really again you have to find those valuable unknown truths. You have to have a passion to get it over the line fast and first. Uh and you have to build trust with those that you're bringing it to. But I think one of the things about iteration is really lowering risk. A lot of here's an interesting here's an interesting way to go with this is that a lot of people say I want to have I want to be a risk-taking company or I want to I want to go to I want to go work for a risk-taking initiative or whatever and I'm like no I want to be a not risktaking company or a risk mitigating company. I like to say is innovation I have this like fun formula innovation equals big P divided by little R. Big P is progress and little R is risk. Risk comes in the form of time, money and reputation. So I need to squeeze down risk. If I get it to zero, then P then then innovation goes to infinity and hold on to that progress while getting risk down. And iteration is a big part of that. It's about in some ways finding those valuable unknown truths while minimizing the risk of doing so in the form of dollars, time, and reputation. As you go to the mics, I'm going to ask one more question. And of course, we got questions coming up on Slido and on Zoom here. uh you have really been passionate about a customer centric focus. Yeah. Speak to that for a moment. Well, look, I think you know, look, who's the best of the best of the best at this is probably Amazon under Bezos. Yeah. I mean, that was that's just next level. Um just done so beautifully. It's so clarifying to to make a person's happiness or a company's happiness your target. It's it's it's visceral. Uh and so if you start there and work your way through it, it gets you you just get clarity. Now, a lot of people go, "Oh, I'm going to be customer obsessed. I'm going to lower the price." Well, if you don't exist in business next year because you went out of business, you weren't customer obsessed. So, customer obsessed means you you have to have a lot of heart for the customer. You have to have a lot of love for them, but you also have to have a lot of ROI. And if you get a lot of ROI with that heart, then you can put in even more heart. And I think that's one of the things that is sort of like that the the sort of the the the feelings and the numbers coming together if that makes sense. And I think sometimes people forget that it's about both. Simon, this is not about technology. It was about your mindset when you had so much trouble pushing the taxi syndicates and every day like it seems like you had another issue. How did you keep resilient in your mind and your team? And what's the mindset you can uh recommend to us that we always are seeing challenges every day and and changes like you like you did? Well, it's interesting because every once in a while I'll get a entrepreneur that comes to me and will say, "When do I give up?" Like, "When do I move on?" And I've sort of formulated a a three-step program. I'd love to know the answer. Okay. I've held on too long a few times. I've never given up early, but I've held on too long. I have, too. This applies to Well, I don't know if it applies to all areas of life, but it might. I haven't thought about it. Uh, okay. So, step one, do you still believe? Like, if you don't believe, move on. Yeah. Obvious. Okay. Um, step two, are you the right person to do it? M so this goes back to self-awareness and just knowing like okay what sport are we playing am I a support player I'm the main player like where do I land where am I in this and super hyper transparent honesty with yourself about it okay and then okay so let's say we check that box too step three am I about to do significant mental or physical damage to myself by continuing I remember one of my companies. It was uh and that's the hardcore entrepreneur way. That's like that's when you're really right on the edge. I I was uh running a launch company in the late 80s way before SpaceX and in the last days the company I was making journal entries saying the patients on life support four days left to live. You know it's like just this you know emotional Yeah. Richard if you start having apocalyptic dreams or nightmares You're probably getting pretty close in my experience. Uh, Richard, please. Yeah. Hi, everybody. Um, Richard Medaf. Um, the question is on my mind is the inner journey. So you've led this industry disruption at scale. Uh and as it got bigger, were there moments where there was some kind of inner story fear or you stop playing the big enough game or I'm just kind of wondering what those kind of pivotal inner moments as a leader was or were. Uh I'm not sure I understand the question. So you were leading change where there was no playbook. Yeah. Right. where you were kind of out there at the forefront kind of writing the rules as you go. A lot of pressure from from various states. So I was just kind of wondering like what that did for your own personal leadership. Were there moments where you lost your nerve or um doubted yourself? Never happened. Never lost my nerve. Just kidding. Okay. Yeah. So just the inner game kind of what's the un the unheard story of what goes on for you? Look, um, yeah, there's there's something to be said when when I finished that company before Uber, uh, that one where I did four years, no salary, like all this stuff, ran out of money a couple times, had apocalyptic nightmares, you know, this kind of thing. Um, I then would do I did a couple talks, you know, like entrepreneur talks, things like this. And, uh, one of my sort of apherisms was, uh, money will not buy you happiness, but it will pay for therapy. uh uh uh uh uh so look the the clearer you are the more centered you are the more you can do go to one of our our teens Omar thanks Peter hi Travis how do you see cloud kitchens evolving in the near near future what role will AI and automation play in its future growth and do you foresee cloud kitchens merging with any other AI company to become even more cutting edge. Look, the the high level of that question. Okay, so look, I'll do the food part and then the AI the AI part. Um, the idea about cloud kitchens is can you get a meal that is prepared and delivered to you so high quality and so costefficient and so convenient that it is approaching the cost of going to the of you going to the grocery store. Yeah. And if you do that, you do to the kitchen what Uber did to the car. And you turn this thing that we all do for ourselves into a thing that a service does for you. That doesn't mean we don't cook. Like I like horses, but I don't ride a horse to work. And really, this kind of infrastructure will be so much more healthy. I like to say you don't have to be wealthy to be healthy. And that's one of those things we talk about. you you you basically get again that you what you get in return for this is you basically get your time back to do all the other things in life you love and cook when you want that's great but you don't have to and uh similar to what happened in the Uber situation is that of course this used to drive everybody used to drive themselves and more and more every year uh somebody else is doing it for us or there's a service that does it for and ultimately an automated one as it relates to AI on this question. I think everybody is very familiar with chat GBT, deepseek gro this kind of thing. I call that bits AI. That's AI for bits. Mhm. There's a whole other thing that we're probably going to start seeing more of which is what I call Adam's AI. AI around the physical world. You could say the first iteration of that is what you see with uh the Whimos rolling around, right? And autonomous cars generally. But what about humanoids? What about it's basically how do how does an how does a machine move through the physical world and act in the physical world? There is very there's a whole other set of models that are going to need to be invented to make that real. uh sometimes borrowing from the other side, but it's a it's a different ballgame. Thank you. Gustavo on Zoom. What's your question, Gustavo? Hi. Hi, Travis. Uh I'm from Brazil. I am a serial entrepreneur. I have a $1 billion companies in my track record I co-ounded. In my experience, luck plays a bigger role than my vision and ability. In your view, does luck significantly contribute to the success of a business? Could you venture a percentage if so? How important is luck, Travis? Um, okay. So, I like to play back. Does anybody here like to play back? Anybody? All right, there we go. In any given game, luck plays a real role. Sure. But if you play a hundred games, it doesn't. That's a that's a really good analogy. So the way to think about it is is the success that you have is it due to 10,000 decisions or is it due to two? If it's due to just a couple then you're lucky. If it's due to 10,000 you're not. Love that. Cartique. Thanks Peter Travis. Thrilled to have you here. Um so my question actually and I'm gonna reference George's question up there if you don't mind. um is about what framework do you have and that you're deploying deploying to determine to assess timing but also valuable unknown truths. Yeah. I mean timing you know you get burned what what you know a lot of the other question I get a lot of is how do you is what did you learn what did you learn at the last thing or what what did you learn and I'm like well I learned all the things I shouldn't do. Yeah. And that usually I mean a bit all of that is about really seeing the future, right? So a valuable unknown truth is means you see something nobody else does. It means you believe something that is against what everybody else believes. It means you have to see the future. You have to see the difference between perception and reality. Where everybody thinks reality is here. That's their perception. They think reality is here but it's actually over here. The distance between the two is the innovator's playground. So you have to get good at seeing what the future really is and being very skeptical of everything coming in and analyzing in a very truthful way and getting good at it. Uh what is actual reality, not what do people think reality is. And look for those moments when what people think is very very different than what is real. That's where all the good stuff is. Beautiful. Give it up for that. John. Yes. Me. Hi, Travis. Thanks for being here. I have a really important question. Yeah. How has your leadership changed since everything that happened at Uber? Yeah, great question. So, before Uber, the largest company that I had run was a 12 person company. So kind of everything. Okay. So everything I'm saying right now is from a journey where you learn every day and you sort of deeply commit to getting better every day. So like everything from 12 people running scrappy, don't know what the hell you're doing, you know, not paying yourself for four years. Thousand. How big was Uber at that point? It was like 15 20,000 people. Yeah. and then you know several million drivers it was all you know it was so what I learned is just like whole like everything I'm saying you know and you iterate on all those things as you go we'll go to Elin Elin thank you Peter what's your advice on uh industry that that's super seg segmented such as I missed you what's my advice on what's your advice on on segmented industry such as uh construction materials uh digitized the that industry and I've been wrong for the last five years. Look, I I've played around. So So we buy property and and do construction. That's part of what we do. Um and I've sort of dabbled in modular construction. The the promise of it is so beautiful. Um, of course the issue is called local contractors and subcontractors and like we did this thing where we made this beautiful we would manufacture these facilities these kitchen facilities offsite just really epically just just wonderful. But then it turns out like okay you have to put them together like Legos on site. Um, but now I have to train a set of contractors to build it. And in the first go, we had one that could do it. And he wakes up one morning, he's like, you know, I don't feel like doing it today. And you're like, please, pretty please. We signed a contract. You're supposed to do it. And then he's like, you know, I think if you paid me half a million dollars more, I would do it. So you get into this world where it's against the contract you signed, but like they got you. So then you're like, okay, now I have to train all these all these contractors to do this thing so that I can manufacture somewhere else and then put the pieces together. Lo, you know, my point is is like there's a lot of change that needs to happen. It may be that we only get there when we get into true robotic construction on site or I don't know. I haven't solved this. Vertically integrate everything again. Yeah, I don't know. I don't have the answer for this one, but I have so much hope. Thank you. Yeah. Uh Jacob, one of our teens again. Yeah. Uh hello Travis. So, do you believe that the mass disruption of currently existing industries happens based off of factors within or out of your control when you're creating a business based on your experiences at Uber? Look, nobody's in control of the world. So, you have to see into where the world is going and build for that world. Um, and sometimes the world changes in ways that you didn't expect. Uh, and you have to adapt to that. So, we're only in control of what we do each day, but most definitely most of what's going on we're not in control of. And I think that's a super important thing for people to realize because I think a lot of people get really attached to this idea of controlling stuff and they get into weird spots uh when you do that. Now, there's the other side of it. You get so used to not being in control, like as an entrepreneur, you wake up and you're like, "What crazy effed up thing is happening today?" And you just go, "Yeah, I guess that's what's happening today. Let's go." But then you you almost lose your spine. You almost become in an invertebrae because you're like just like this blob that's just cool with whatever's happening. So you have to sort of keep the fight to try to make the world the way you want it, but you can't get attached to trying to control it. It's like this balance. It's amazing. Verun on on Zoom, please. Thank you, Peter. And hi Travis. Uh dialing in from Dubai. Uh my question is the global consulting industry is highly fragmented and as we live longer there's going to be a lot more uh people who work in the industry who will become consultants. It's uh really fragmented and it's a large industry. Is it a good idea to consolidate this industry using uh the Uber model? Push a button, get a consultant. Um I was just kidding. Um okay like people like okay yeah um no I think that uh the consulting world is so much about what can be done with AI. Yeah I think consulting is about to get radically transformed with AI right now like you're like okay if you're sort of a traditional consultant and you just you're doing the thing you're executing the thing you're probably in some big trouble. you think if you are the consultant that puts the things together that replaces the consultant, maybe you got some stuff, you know, and you're basically going to those like I previously mentioned profitable companies with competitive moes and like making their moat bigger and making their profit bigger is probably pretty interesting from a financial point of view. Yeah, I think it's consulting is a scarcity mindset business. You build a wall around these consultants and you meter them out a little bit at a time and that will get completely disintermediated by AI. Yeah, Tad, let's go to uh you can push a button now and get a consultant. It's called Deep Research. We've been talking about it for the last two days. It's pretty cool. Let's go. Um Travis, um what advice do you have please for investors and board members who want to make entrepreneurs like you successful or working with people like you? Yeah. What are the tailwinds? What are the headwinds that they create? Yeah. I mean, I'm going to say some provocative things. I was hoping you would. Yeah. All right. Let's let's go. I think um there are a lot of investors who make the pitch of founder friendly. Uh they make the pitch as if their job is to that serve the founder. Uh but that's not their job. Their job is called c capital allocation. And once you make that leap that you understand that your job is capital allocation and not uh happiness of a founder uh then I think a lot of things actually get into a much better spot. Um and generally for from a founders's perspective the way a founder should look at an investor is um not which investor is going to be founder friendly or help me you know this kind of things. I've just never seen that work. Uh it's it's uh which investor does the least amount of harm. So the way I look at it is okay, you're playing a chess match. You're like a grandmaster chess player, right? And you're playing another grandmaster chess player and you're playing this game like 60 hours a week, this match. 60 hours a week is what you're doing. And you're like pretty exhausted from doing that, but like you're passionate about it. And then there's this chess enthusiast that doesn't actually play chess is trying to tell you what moves to do on the chess board. And you're like, "Homie, is let me tell you the 18 reasons why that's not a thing." And it's not their fault. They're not playing chess. It's okay. But but the do no harm's a real thing. I look, governance matters. Uh but a lot of times I think investors get in the mode of thinking they're the idea guy. It it's if the investor is the idea guy, you have the wrong company. And getting a board that supports you as a as a moonshot entrepreneur that gives you the freedom to do riskier things. It's got to be smart risks. Yeah. Right. Of course. But still Yeah. Like you still as a board member should be like, "Are you smoking something? You know, the response should be very good, but you should be asking, "Are you smoking something?" Cuz things can get weird. Yeah. Thank you. This is such a wonderful conversation. Um, so we were having dinner last night. It was a group of founders and we started to brainstorm around what's happening over the next 5 years and 10 years. Will robots and AI replace all of our jobs? How do we prepare for that future? I'd love to get your thoughts because it's coming up fast. Yeah. I mean, this is a hard one to answer because the history of technology basically says we're fine. But a lot of times history says you're fine and then things change, you know? So, it's like I don't know. The one thing out the one thing we got going for us, this is a weird one. The one thing we got going for us is that robots don't have bank accounts yet. We had a we had a two-hour session on crypto last night. Easy. Easy. Okay, hold on. Let me just roll with this for a second. Okay, let's just assume robots don't have bank accounts. All right. Um, why does that matter? Because if you're making something cheaper, it's cheaper for a human. It means that they have more money than to spend on other things. And when they spend it on something that's powered by AI, it doesn't go to a robot's bank account. And when some founder makes a ton of money doing whatever and they're going to spend that money, it doesn't go into a robot's bank account. So, so I'm in a weird way, I know this is a little bit, you know, sort of nichy with the way I'm answering this. I'm more optimistic than pessimistic. I'd say the other thing that I'd put out there that I think it might be more generally applicable or make more sense to be honest is um I've done companies that have failed and the main thing when the company failed that I experienced or that I saw was that nobody wanted the thing that I made. Uh so if somebody wants to go and make a better, they should count on failing. And if you want it to succeed, you better be making somebody's life better and probably a lot of people's lives better if you want it to succeed. Um, and so that's where things ultimately go is that the machines are serving our by its nature, its DNA are serving us. Just throwing it out there. Time for one last question. Rachel, thank you. And Travis, Uber changed my grandparents life. So, thank you. Oh, that's awesome. Thank you. My name is Rachel Odin and I am an ascend fellow and also a new founder. I am building an AIdriven company to revol revolutionize how we form, sustain and grow our most intimate relationships. And the question I have for you is that Uber wasn't just a a company. It was it introduced entirely new market. It was disruptive innovation. So how did you balance needing to educate people on the market with building your product refining your business model and scaling? Well, the, you know, it's like um it's, you know, you you hear about somebody's first experience with Uber and the fortunate part is is the product itself is the education. They're like sitting at a dinner table and you're like, "Check this out." You know, uh you're at a restaurant, you're like, and it was naturally social. A large percentage of the app installs were at restaurants, right? A large percentage of the app installs were due to one person introducing the thing with a link like I get a free ride when I give you a free ride. We called it give get the it was like a third of all of our new users up till like 2015 or 16. So it you the product itself was the education. Um, you know, look, I think it's pretty weird that one citizen taking another citizen across town became somehow really controversial. Uh, it's kind of weird that that was controversial, but it was. So, we had to sort of deal with the controversy as we went. Maybe it gets back into that changemaking thing and trust or lack thereof. Um, yeah. All right, ladies and gentlemen, let's give it up for Travis Milanic. If you enjoyed this episode, I'm going to be releasing all of the talks, all the keynotes from the Abundance Summit exclusively on exponentialmastery.com. You can get on demand access there. Go to exponentialmastery.com. [Music]