# This Will Change How You Do Everything w/ Tony Robbins | EP #69

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MOXkko0N3XM
Show: Moonshots (Peter Diamandis)
Transcript method: youtube auto-captions (VTT)
Ingested: 2026-04-28

---

You got to have something that is large enough that it makes you crazy and you don't know that you can do it, but you got to know you can do it. I know it sounds ridiculous. There's got to be some part of you that turns it into a must, not a should. If it's a should, it gets done when it's easy. When it's a must, it happens no matter what. It's not about the goal, it's about who you become. The first question people go to is how, and that's the wrong question. Watch out for the tyranny of how. It's tyranny. Don't start with how. It'll It'll shut down your capacity. Start with what and why and get that so strong, then start brainstorming. There's a million hows. Give yourself an experience that's so vivid over and over again, and all of a sudden it's certain you'll be there. When the certainty's there, you come up with the answer. You get really certain I'm going to do this. We're going to make this happen. I don't mean false fake just optimism. I mean in your core. And then what happens? YOU TAP MASSIVE POTENTIAL. You take massive action because you know it's going to work. And what kind of results with massive action massive potential? Usually some pretty damn good results. And when you get good results, what does it do to your belief? Your brain goes, "See, I told you you were smart or something like that. I told you you were the man. I told you the woman. I knew you could do this." One of the friendships I cherish in life is with a dear friend, Tony Robbins. We've been friends now for the better part of 20 years. He's funded a couple of X prizes. We've written a New York Times best-selling book together. We've co-founded a couple of companies. What most people don't know about him is the audacity and size of the moonshots that Tony is taking in the world. Now, I had a chance to bring him as a closing speaker in conversation with me at A360 2023 to talk about his moonshots, to inspire people to go bigger and to go bolder in the world. And in this podcast episode, we're going to dive into his various moonshots. These are moonshots including providing clean drinking water to the world, planting hundreds of millions of trees, delivering 100 billion meals to those who are hungry, reinventing how we provide energy to the planet, providing an extended health span. This man does not stop. Uh who he is on stage is who he is in private life. He's one of my heroes, someone I care deeply about. So, join me for this conversation. Learn from the master about what it takes to have a moonshot mindset and how you scale your moonshots to impact the planet in a meaningful fashion. Here's a man who's passionate and dedicated about creating a world that is hopeful, compelling, and abundant for humanity. All right, let's dive in. This is a conversation from my private A360 Summit in March of 2023, and it's going to be a timeless conversation. Enjoy. First of all, Tony, listen, uh you're coming off of a insane trip through the Middle East. Uh how many days at UPW? Uh 4 days. We had 40,000 people from 185 countries. It's It's crazy. And here, this man does not stop. I'll I'll leave you voice notes every once in a while saying, "Who is the insane person who schedules you?" Yeah. And then you called and asked me for 2 days later if I could come join you. And you said yes, and I am forever grateful. Of course. You know, our mission here is to inspire this amazing group of entrepreneurs to go bigger and to take moonshots. And I thought no better way than to share the extraordinary moonshots you're taking. Um and every time I think I know them all, there's there's another one. But, you know, Tony doesn't do anything on a small scale. It's all on Tony scale. And I want to dive into those. Um I want to start with one that I'm going to feed through our conversation, uh which is perhaps uh the one that you're taking to the highest limits, and that is around food. Yes. Um what's the number of people on the planet today that have food insecurity? 350 This It's normally 80 million people a year. Five Every 5 seconds a child dies of hunger. This year, it's 350 million people. And the reason is because of the COVID policies we had. In Africa, there was no travel, and 80% of the food, or I should say the income in those countries very often is coming from tourism. So, they have no money. Then you have the Ukraine war that of course is the breadbasket. And then the WF would prefer people not use fertilizer, and yet 50% of all the world's food is generated by fertilizer, and it comes mostly from Russia, which is shut down. So, we have 18 countries on the verge of famine right now according to the UN. And um it's it's more severe than most people ever could imagine. And it affects everybody, whether you care about children or feeding people or not, the instability in the world will certainly affect the world as a whole if we don't do something about it. Yeah, it's uh And the challenge is that most people are a blind to it because it happens over there. Yeah. Uh but the the fact is we can do something. Uh we can do something in the near term to help save those lives and do something in the longer term to reinvent our food system and our fertilization system, which you're working on both. Yes. Yeah. Well, the one is, you know, it started for me, and it's not just something that I intellectually was involved in. I grew up in a pretty tough environment, and we had time when there was no food. And my life was changed. The reason I get to do what I do really is not cuz I'm such a good guy. It's cuz somebody was really good to my family on Thanksgiving when I was 11. Uh we had no money, no food. We wouldn't have starved. We had saltine crackers and butter, and that's what we would have had. But, you know, Thanksgiving makes it magnified that you're not having a feast when everybody else is. And my parents were fighting and saying things you can't take back, unfortunately. And my life was changed by a knock on the door, and I went and answered the door, and there's this tall guy standing there with two giant bags of groceries, and he had an uncooked frozen turkey in a pan on the ground cuz he couldn't carry it all. And he said, "Uh is your father here?" And I was like, "Just one moment." And I was euphoric. And I went to my father, he was yelling through the door at my mom, and I said, "There's a man at the door for you." And he said, "Will you answer?" I said, "I did." He goes, "Who is it?" I said, "I don't know, it's for you." And I was just so excited to see him be transformed by this gift. Uh but when he came to the door and saw the man, he had a reaction I was not anticipating, and I've never forgot it because it kind of filters how I try to help people with food insecurity. And that is he got very angry. He just said, "Listen, we don't accept charity." And he went to slam the door. The guy holding the food is pretty big, and he leaned forward so the door hit his shoulder and bounced back open, which made my dad even more mad. And he said, "Sir, sir, before you get upset, I'm just a delivery guy. Somebody knows you're having a tough family time on Thanksgiving. Everyone has tough times, and they want you to have a a great Thanksgiving with your family." My father went to shut the door again. This time the guy's foot was there, and it bounced off his foot. And things are getting animated. And then this man saw me and said something I thought my father was going to just punch him out. He looked at me, and then he looked at my father, and he said, "Sir, don't let your ego get in the way of taking care of your family." And the veins on the side of my father's throat, I can still see them today. He turned flush red. And he didn't hit him. He took the groceries, he slammed them on the table. He didn't say thank you. He closed the door. Um completely changed my life. How old were you? I was 11. And it changed my life because I realized I didn't realize it at that moment, but I realized years later our whole lives are changed controlled by three decisions. See if it's true for The first decision that you're making every moment of your life is what are you going to focus on. We don't experience our life. We experience life we focus on. Our brains are distortion, deletion, generalization creatures. You can hear about AI and get scared, or you can hear AI and get excited. You'll be wrong about both. Who knows? But our experience of life is not life. Our brains distort, delete, and generalize, and we only experience what we focus on. Whatever you focus on, you'll feel even if it's not true. So, that day my father chose to focus on the fact he had not taken care of his family. I know that because he said it over and over again. But the minute you focus on something, your brain has to make the second decision. See if this is true for you as well. Soon as you focus on something, you have to decide what does it mean? That's what your brain does. Is this the end or the beginning? If it's the end of a relationship, you're going to be a very differently than if you think it's the beginning of a relationship. Is this person, you know, dissing me, disrespecting me? Are they challenging me? Are they coaching me? Are they loving me? Your meaning will change your emotion, and your emotion controls your life because it controls the third decision, what are you going to do? My dad's meaning was he was worthless cuz he had not taken care of his family. And what he decided to do was leave our family, which at the time was the worst experience of my life. But I chose that day three different decisions. I wasn't so conscious about it, but I could see it looking back. I chose to focus on there was food. What a concept. It's pretty cool. And then my second thing was that changed my life was the meaning. And my father had always said I had forefathers. They all thought nobody gives a damn about you. We lived in a community where it kind of looked like that. And I the meaning I got is that strangers care. And if strangers care about me and my family, I got to care about strangers. And so I thought someday I'm going to do this for someone. So, when I was 17, I fed two families, and it was the most beautiful experience cuz one of the families, without boring you with all the details, um I went as the delivery boy cuz I saw what happened before. I didn't go to be appreciated. I wrote a note that said, "This is a gift from a friend. Have a beautiful Thanksgiving, and someday if you can, pay it forward and take care of one family. With love, a friend." And I had somebody write in Spanish on the back. I got to the first place. I'm wearing jeans and a T-shirt. I got my little note. I called this local church, and I said, "Who needs food, but is too proud to come get it?" And they gave me two families. And then I rented I didn't rent, I borrowed a buddy's old van. I didn't know how to do a stick shift, but I lost it. It wasn't a very good impression for this for this man. And I never I knocked on the first door, and I'm holding these groceries, and the door opens. There's a woman about half my size standing there, and she looked up, and she screamed. Oh my god. And I said, "No, no, no." And then she screamed again. And then she goes, "Oh." And she grabs my head and starts pulling me down to kiss my cheek. And I was like, "No, no, no, delivery boy, delivery boy." She didn't understand. So, I reached and got the note. I turned it over. It was in Spanish, and she read it. And then she started crying. And then she grabbed me again and started kissing me. I was like, "No, no, delivery." She goes, "No, gift of God, gift of God." And I'm trying not to cry. And so I said, like, where do I put this? And there's a little room. You could see where to put it. So, I put the groceries on the And then I heard this noise and I heard the sound and another sound and before I could react, boom, boom, one hit leg was hit by two little boys and then the other one. She had four kids. Wow. Turned out she had four kids. Her husband left her the week before with no money, no food before Thanksgiving. And um when the boys I said to the boys, "Come help me get the rest of these goods out." It was so cool. And when they saw the pumpkin pie, it was over, you so excited. And there was time to leave and I'll never forget. I was like I you know, I had to go feed the next family and these boys were hanging on to me and I didn't want to go, but I had to go finally and I didn't speak any Spanish. So, I looked at her and I said, uh you know, it's Thanksgiving. I said, "Feliz Navidad." And she laughed like you did. She was crying and she started laughing. And she gave me the hug and I'll never forget. I got in the in the car and I was trying to put the thing in reverse. And I looked in the rearview mirror and on this little tiny deck are these four kids with these giant smiles and the mom with the giant crying with a giant smile on her face. And I just lost it. I just started crying and I totally like where I literally couldn't see. I had to stop. And I's like, "Why am I crying? This is such a beautiful moment." And I realized my worst day had just become the best day of my life. The worst day of my life I thought was my father leaving cuz he was I had four fathers, but he's the one who adopted me. That's my name comes from Robbins. And I just I wouldn't have been there if my family was well fed. Would I really be in feeling a billion people? No. So, I I went out I started with two families the next year four and then eight and then that little company got them involved and I had multiple companies and now I have 112 companies. We do $7 billion in business and all my employees get involved. So, we went from two families, four families, a million families to um 4 million families and then about 2008, I was so upset by what happened in the financial markets and I've been coaching Governor Jones for food stamps. 20 years. Yeah. And so I'm I'm I decided to write this book Money Master the Game and if you had Ray Dalio and Warren Buffett and all the best of the best in the area and try to find the common strategies. And while I'm interviewing these multi-billionaires, I'm seeing that they cut food stamps which now they call the SNAP program in the US. They cut it by $6 billion Congress did. Which means every family that actually needs food would have to give up a week's worth of food every month unless people like us step in. So, I called my team and I said, "How many people I've fed in my lifetime?" I had no idea and it was 42 million people. I was like, "Wow." That made me really happy. And I said, "Well, what if you talk about moonshots?" So, I was like, "What if I'm writing this book what if I fed as many people I did in my lifetime in one year? What if I fed 50 million people, more than I've done in my lifetime?" I said, "What if I fed 100 million? What if I did 100 million for the next 10 years and provided a billion meals?" And I just finished that 2 weeks ago and I finished it 2 years ago. run over that. Yeah. Yeah, thank you. So, the decision to start with the first two meals at age 17 Yes. led to that connection to a billion meals. Yes. And just the importance that we talked about earlier of starting, of beginning, that first step. That first inclination to take action. Um how did that feel to reach a billion? I felt incredible, but one of the things I've learned in my lifetime, I'm sure you've all learned it, too, is when you're getting clear to achieving a goal, it's not about the goal, it's about who you become. Mhm. You know, what you get is not going to make you happy. Who you become make you happy or make you sad. And I've noticed in my lifetime, I don't know if you've seen it, that when you start go for a goal and you're about to achieve it, if you wait till you achieve it to set the next goal there's a little bit of a lull that'll start, you know, a little plateau. And I'm not into plateaus, so I immediately was like, "Okay, what am I going to do next?" I'm It's not the only project I'm doing, obviously, it's food. But we sponsored the X Prize uh here and I went and brought my friends from the UAE involved. Sheikh Tahnoun's a good friend of mine. And I said, "Let's do an X Prize. Let's feed the next billion. Let's find the sources of protein that can be cheap enough to feed everybody, but also delicious enough." So, the test is not just we're going to produce this food cheaper we're going to produce it in a way that's better for the environment, doesn't require all the water, doesn't pollute the air and so forth but also does it at a cheaper price and it's delicious. They can't tell the difference. So, that's the goal there. And then along the way while I was doing this project with you um I was um I'm in the process with some friends of of attempting to buy Forbes right now and Steve's a good friend of ours. And I was We have a We have Shiv here. Yeah, Shiv's here. He's the one helping us and Magomed. But And Magomed is here, too. I got I got a chance to get a phone call when I was in 2019 when I was in Abu Dhabi and BZ called me up and said, "I want to have another lunch with you." We'd had lunch 2 days before and he goes "You're doing so much to feed people. There's only one person I know that's in your category." And of course he he brought Governor Beasley who's like way beyond my category. He's running the UN program. He got the the the He won the Nobel Prize for feeding people 2 years ago. So, we became good friends and we went back and forth. But then with this last year he reached out to me actually uh one of my dear friends uh who's here tonight reached out to me and said, "You know, you got to see the Twitter war that's happening between Elon Musk and Governor Beasley." What's happening? He wants to write a big check to try and solve this problem cuz the problem's bigger than ever before and nobody realizes how big it is. And and so I entered in a little Twitter argument and said, "Listen, I don't think it's just Elon's responsibility. I think it's all of us. We can do this together. We can make this happen." So, we ended up having further conversations and I said, "How big is the hole?" And he said, "Tony you know, the the long-term solution we're working on is great, but you got to fill the hole right now." Yes. And it's between 50 and 75 billion meals that we need around the world. I'm like, "Wow." I said, "Then why don't we do a 100 billion meal challenge? All we got to do is find 99 people like me. I'm not a multi-billionaire and I've been able to do it. There's plenty of multi-billionaires. There's plenty of average people that could participate." And I said that we'll fill the gap then while we're coming up with the long-term solutions through the X Prize. And he said, "Will you help me go one-on-one around the room around the world to talk to different you know, wealthy people to invest?" And I said, "Well, when I talked to Warren Buffett when I interviewed him for my book he told me that the Giving Pledge didn't take off right away. He people didn't respond to Warren Buffett. But then he started sponsoring the Forbes philanthropy dinner and people got competitive in a good way and it just took off like crazy. I said, "So, why don't we see where everybody's together, 400 richest families? Let's see if Warren will let us take 45 minutes of that dinner and tell people what's really going on cuz they have no clue." I said, "I'll speak for 15 or 20, you speak for 30 and we'll at least see what we can do." And see if we can raise these meals. And so um Warren actually agreed and Warren got sick, so we took it over. And and the Governor Beasley did an unbelievable job. He's amazing human being. And we raised 5 billion meals in an hour, which was pretty extraordinary. It took a lifetime to do a billion. That was just fantastic. And and Magomed, I don't know if you're out there someplace, but my dear friend Magomed and Shiv were partners of mine in various things we're doing together, but he I met him there and we started talking and I said you know, I don't give a damn about the money cuz I remember I called one friend of mine who's a you know, he's worth about $20 billion. Beautiful man. He sends me a check every year for like half a million dollars. I won't take his money, so he sends it to me to give away. So, I add to my philanthropy with it. But I told him about this. He's helped me with the other meal thing. I said "Now I'm done with the billion meal challenge. I'm closing in. We're going to do a 100 billion meals. Here's why. Here's the He goes, "Well, how much is that?" I said, "Well, they're 10 cents to 30 cents a meal." I said, "Honestly, mine were 10 cents a meal in the US. But it can be as much as 30 cents overseas cuz the things involved there." He goes, "Well, that's beyond my pay grade." And I thought "That's beyond his pay grade. I'm in deep right now." Um so I we changed the focus to saying, "Yes, people will give money, but let's get the raw resources we need. Let's see if we can't get it at the lowest cost. I want to get the meals." And so Magomed, I He's out there somewhere. He's hiding out, but he's beautiful man. Yes. And um and we're speaking, you know, he speaks Russian. Where did you go, Magomed? Where are you? There he is in the back here. I want to tell you what this man has done back here. So, Magomed came up to me. We made this connection like we've known each other for decades. It was crazy. He goes "We're going to get this done. We're going to get this done." He started calling some of his friends. He used to run the innovation segments of segments of Russia and he owns uh Russia the Russian version of Forbes and he did a black cover during the war and left. So, he's no longer there. Um but he said, "Listen, I I know some friends." And I said, "We need the fertilizer. We desperately need fertilizer and we need grains. And we know where they're needed because of the countries in Africa from the UN." And so he literally convinced couple of his friends to make donations that are in the $500 million range. And they have already shipped to about 70% of the places. We've raised enough now and delivered enough for 60 billion meals. We've done that in the first 6 months. So, it's amazing though I think when you there to the illustration for all of you here that I know you're working your tails off and many of you already have you know, giant moonshots you're making or you're going to make new ones the next day or so is you know, I think the distinctions you gave I came upon independently of you and you've came independently from me or or hearing Darpa's description. You know, you got to have something that is large enough that it makes you crazy and you don't know that you can do it. But you got to know you can do it. I know it sounds ridiculous. There's got to be some part of you that turns it into a must, not a should. If it's a should it gets done when it's easy. When it's a must, it happens no matter what. And you know, the difference between should and must is reasons. Mhm. Reasons come first, answers come second. If you got strong enough reasons, if you got a big enough why, you can figure out how to do anything. But what keeps people I think from making moonshots real cuz you got to look at the side of why people don't do it or why they don't follow through. Number one that people they the first question people go to is how. And that's the wrong question. How is absolutely the wrong question to start with because if you've never done it before, what that produces is uncertainty. If you have uncertainty, then you don't execute at the same level. It's like people say knowledge is power. We all know that's Right? Execution is power. Knowledge is potential power. Execution beats knowledge every day of the week. So, my bias is towards action. Even if it's the wrong action, you're going to learn quicker than if you do nothing. But, the challenge is people are asking how and that produces uncertainty. What you got to ask is what and why. If you know what needs to be done and why it needs to be done, if it's strong enough, then there's a level of certainty that will show up in your nervous system and you'll be able to inspire it in other people as well cuz you can't fake it. Everybody can feel it. And so, if you can come up with that, if find out how to turn that certainty on, that's what I do with people, athletes, business people, everybody. It's how do you turn that on and keep it on? Turn that on and then, knowing what and why, you can figure out how. It's like, you know, John F. Kennedy didn't know how to get to the moon when he said we're going to put somebody on the moon and return to turn to the earth safely in this decade and people at NASA are like, he's insane. We don't have the resources. But, they did That's leadership. That's a moon shot, right? And it can't just be you. So, that's the other part. Is it something that doesn't just inspire you? Is it something that will keep you going when it doesn't look like it's going to work, keep you from giving up, but is it something that will get other people to join you? Otherwise, it's just you and you're you're not going to do it by yourself. There's no moon shots that are done by individuals. That's Individuals may stimulate it, but it takes a team. It takes an army of people to make something happen. So, I think watch out for the tyranny of how. It's tyranny. Don't start with how. It'll It'll shut down your capacity. Start with what and why and get that so strong, then start brainstorming. There's a million hows. And if there isn't a way, you can find a way or make a way. And I think that happens and the other thing that happens is when you succeed, you get momentum. That's the other thing I mentioned to There's a There's a cycle I work with athletes and and also business people called the success cycle. And it's it's based on the idea that you ever notice the rich get richer and the poor get poorer and I don't mean money rich. I mean rich. Do you ever notice happy people tend to get more happy? Unhappy people get more depressed, more pissed off, right? Same thing is true in every aspect, including finance. So, there's that maybe we can throw on the screen. I'll just show you real fast. I find this really simplistic and useful when I'm working with an athlete or somebody. So, this is a cycle. It has a sequence. So, if I said to you, what's the potential of your moon shot? What's the potential of any human being? What would you say the potential of any human being is? Shout it out. I'm curious. What is it? What's the potential? Well, that was powerful. Unlimited. What is it? Come on, guys. What is it? If you can't come up unlimited in this room, you you what you started in the wrong place, right? Here we are. So, it's unlimited. Is it literally unlimited? Of course not. But, it's not as limited as our thinking, that's for sure. So, our potential's amazing. Now, if I point over here in the bottom right hand corner, go results, do most people's results reflect their true potential? Yes or no? No way. Why not? Yeah, I mean, you were saying they don't take enough action. That's very true. Massive action can be a cure-all, right? If you don't just take massive action, take massive action, see if it's working, if it doesn't change. It doesn't change. Keep changing. It's like how long do you give your average child to learn how to walk before you shut them off and go, you're not a walker? You go, no, my kid's going to keep trying until. So, yes, action makes a huge difference. However, if you don't have certainty the action's going to work, this is what people do. They call it trying. Trying is Trying is I'm just doing enough to justify that I didn't give up too easily. Trying is you don't believe it's going to work. You're not absolutely certain, so you don't tap your full potential. Who's going to tap their potential when they're they're uncertain? And no one wants to fail, so you're going to take massive action when you don't think it's going to work? So, when you take little potential, little action, little belief, what kind of results you get? Little, terrible results. And when you get terrible results, what does that do to your belief now? Believe it or not, it gets worse. Now, you're even more uncertain. You tap even less potential. You get even worse results, right? Less action, worse results and we can go see and now you're on the downward spiral. Who's ever done this in your life in any area? Yeah. Yeah, if you don't raise your hand, you lie about other too, don't you? Come on. Okay? But, it also works on the other side. I know you've all experienced it cuz you're all peak performers, right? So, what happens? Something happens and you get certain about something. You get really certain. I'm going to do this. We're going to make this happen. I don't mean false, fake, just optimism. I mean in your core. POTENTIAL. You take massive action cuz you know it's going to work. And what kind of results with massive action, massive potential? Usually, some pretty Your brain goes, see, I told you you were stat or stat at. I told you you were the man. I told you the woman. I knew you could do this. Now, you tap more and now you're on the upward spiral. Now, who here has experienced both sides at the same time in different parts of your life? Like one area is going one direction, the other is your your finances going there, your kids going another, right? Or your body's going direction, your business in another. So, the way you change this, most people go, I got to work on more action. Well, if you took a salesperson and he's uncertain, he makes 100 calls and says, you wouldn't want to buy this from me, would you? Right? Some people are going to buy just because they don't want your kids to starve, right? But, you're not going to do well. You have to change the certainty. But, how do you change the certainty when you've never done it before? That's what a moon shot is. And it's so simple, you all know it, you've all practiced it, but sometimes we forget. It's the same everything great athlete does. You produce the result in your mind first with such vivid, deep, emotional train that your brain can't tell the difference between something you vividly imagine something you, you know, actually have experienced. In fact, we want to do something just for 2 seconds since you've been sitting there so long. Stand up just for a minute if you would, just for a second. Stretch your body out just for a second. And put your feet together like so, so they're touching. All right? Touching together, all right? Not apart, touching. And then, just slowly bring up your right index finger straight in front of And what I say now, don't do it till I say now. I want you to turn clockwise comfortably and just notice where you normally naturally relax. Go ahead. Turn clockwise and notice where you stop. Okay? Come back around. Take your finger out of your neighbor's ear. Close your eyes. Now, every one of you knows the power of visualization. And some of you would say, I don't visualize. But, if I said, what color is my shirt, you would say Black. How do you know? You go, I saw it. WELL, SOME OF you slow down the image and actually see the shirt. Most of you don't. Your just brain asks, it sees the picture in micro speed and all of a sudden, bam, you know the answer. So, some of you don't slow it down, but you still visualize. So, just for a moment, I want you to imagine, stay standing with your feet together, imagine your fingers coming up again. Don't actually do it, but imagine it vividly like you're seeing and feeling that finger come up and see in through yourself turning twice as far this time and it's effortless. And then in your mind, do it again. See and feel the finger coming up and see and feel, just imagine it going three times as far this time. And it's fun and you enjoy it and you expect to go further. When you're a little kid, you'd say, measure me. Go, I measured you last week, son. Measure me again. Right? Now, bring the finger up in your mind one more time and this time feet stay straight and this time imagine going all the way around like an owl. You go all the way around to the front. Okay? And it's fun and it's easy and every time you expect to go further. Now, open your eyes and bring your finger up and now turn as far as you can comfortably and let's see where you go this time. Ooh. What's that moaning doing there? How many of you went significantly further THIS TIME? SAY I. I. How many went at least 25% further? Say I. Then grab a seat and just answer this question if you would for me. And that is, could you have turned that far the first time? Of course. Why didn't you? Because even though you're unaware of it, you even have beliefs about how far you can turn. A belief is a poor substitute for an experience. You can tell me what you think about China, but if you haven't gone there and have no experience, you just tell me your belief. And beliefs can be changed very quickly. vivid over and over again and all of a sudden the certainty will be there. When the certainty's there, you come up with the answer. Without the certainty, it won't happen. So, if a moon shot's going to happen, in my opinion, like when I the first version of something I did was I was at the school year when I was like 29 and these kids were doing all my stuff there. It was a grade school. It was in Houston. It was a real tough area. And they said, we want you to come. So, I thought I was going to inspire these kids. And instead, I sat while they did like every grade got up and did some version of what they learned. Every day they were doing some aspect of my work. And at the end, I was really touched. I was like, I don't want this to end. And the sixth graders who had just only had 1 year of it, I said, you know what? I said, if you guys are willing to commit, I said, I'm going to sponsor all of your college educations. I said, every single one of your college education, get to pick where you want to do. I'll put the criteria down. I'm going to sign a contract for it. But, what I want from you is a B average and I said, and I'll also get you mentors and I want you to give 30 hours of community service. Now, why did I do that? Well, because I don't have a college education. I think it could be great for many people. It's not great for everybody. But, I wanted them to be people that changed their identity from someone who needed help to someone giving help. And if they were doing that, they would change their life even more than the school, in my opinion. And so, the school system didn't work real well. They came and thought I was proselytizing these children for some cult I was creating or something of that nature. And then they finally became my friends and then gradually as I followed these kids all the way through school and college and now some were doctors and lawyers and so forth. Went all through that time. But, when I when I set this down and I signed a contract, I didn't have any clue I was going to pay for that. I had no clue. When I did the billion meals, that seemed, you know, I was thinking I'll donate this and that. It was like 100 million dollars. I'm like, holy But, then it happened. But, then what Notice the momentum. Now, in 6 months we're at 60 billion when it took forever to get to a billion. That's what happens, I think, with moon shots. You get momentum. You've all seen this in sports, right? Who's ever seen somebody in sports, an athlete, let's say an NBA coming up to shoot a free throw or a football player, a kicker coming out and you think before they release the ball, before they kick it, you go, they're going to miss it. Who's done this before? Who How many of you were right? Make some noise if you're right, right? How did you know? You could see the lack of certainty. Without certainty, there's not execution. So, my advice to you on your, you know, and my it's my own two cents it's all it's worth. You got to find your own version. Find something you're so passionate about that you'll go to the ends of the earth for. Find something you care about more than yourself. Find something that other people care about more than yourself and then find something that the size of the challenge will excite the hell out of you. Of all the things I've done in my life truthfully about I don't know 7 8 years ago I was like I'm going to continue to do all the things I love when I'm doing but like what's going to really get me going? There's no toys are going to do that. I love planes and all this That's that's really wonderful. It's nice but what really moves me is like impact. So now I do all these things that the food is only one of many of the projects. And let's let's talk about the food and come back to it a little bit later but your decision to go from a billion to 100 billion meals it happened in an instant? Yes. And your level of confidence in making that? Uh certainly cuz I said there's 8 billion people in the world and I only need to find 90 more in the So you're able to Find me. So it's got to be You got to you created a a model that gave you enough confidence in that. then the my next thing is let me go let me go to the people that can say yes. Let's get what let's go fishing not in a trout farm. That's not going to fishing in a sewer. Let's go some place where people have the capacity. Doesn't mean they will say yes but increases your chances and then I was in a big believer in proximity is power. Uh one one of the first billionaires I ever got to know uh gave me some advice one day and he was saying Tony the thing my whole life was changed by this idea of proximity. He said if you wanted to make a movie right now you can make any movie you want cuz I was in like 28 films where people threw me in I didn't even ask for it. It's even before Shallow Hal and things like that. Um but but he said cuz everybody you have so many clients that are heads of studios that are great actors that are great agents. So you're in proximity. So think about it. If you want to do a deal with IBM right now he goes I'm not saying you couldn't do it but you certainly wouldn't have had the same advantage that Bill Gates had with his parents right there on the board of IBM. Proximity is power. So for your moonshot I think you got to get in proximity with the right people. It's one of the reasons that we write the books we've done the books I've done the one we did together. Go to 150 of the smartest scientists on earth Nobel laureates regenerative doctors. What do they know now because the time between when you have a breakthrough and it actually gets to your clinician is on average 18 years. So we want to just blow that out and give people direct access. You know I'm super passionate about longevity and health span and how do you add 10 20 healthy years onto your life? One of the most under appreciated elements is the quality of your sleep and there's something that changed the quality of my sleep and this episode is brought to you by that product. It's called Eight Sleep. If you're like me you probably didn't know that temperature plays a crucial role in the quality of your sleep. Those mornings when you wake up feeling like you barely slept temperature is often the culprit. Traditional mattresses trap heat but your body needs to cool down during sleep and stay cool through the evening and then heat up in the morning. Enter the Pod Cover by Eight Sleep. It's the perfect solution to the problem. It fits on any bed adjust the temperature on each side of the bed based upon your individual needs. You know I've been using Pod Cover and it's a game changer. I'm a big believer in using technology to improve life and Eight Sleep has done that for me and it's not just about temperature control. With the Pod's sleep and health tracking I get personalized sleep reports every morning. It's like having a personal sleep coach so you know when you eat or drink or go to sleep too late how it impacts your sleep. So why not experience sleep like never before? Visit www.eightsleep.com that's e i g h t s l e e p.com/moonshots and you'll save 150 bucks on the Pod Cover by Eight Sleep. I hope you do it. It's transformed my sleep and will for you as well. Now back to the episode. One of the things that I've learned Tony I and I know you know this too is you're giving also as you're going out for those 100 billion meals you're giving people the gift of allowing them to participate in this. Well there's no question. Can you speak to that? Well and so often even when I was doing this in the early days in San Diego just starting out I wrote this little book called Notes from a Friend and we started not just giving food but giving this little cartoon like book for people and there was this man I'll never forget who came and he he took half the stuff he gave and he gave it to somebody else and he kept handing out food for everybody else cuz he got into the whole spirit of it. He saw his whole again he became someone not looking for help. He was someone who could be giving help. It's an identity change. All lasting change by the way in your life my life or anybody's is a change in identity. Anything else is a fight. That's like if you ever you know if you once smoked and you don't anymore and I came to you and said would you like a cigarette? You're not going to go what brand is it? You're going to say I'm not a smoker. I'm not one of those. Identity is the most powerful force that controls the human psyche. Change your identity change your life. Expand your identity expand your life. Shrink your identity shrink your life. So I try to get people to do things that change their identity. Even even the silly fun things we do like the fire walk or wood break things that we do are give someone an experience that after they do it their brain says if I can do this what else can I get myself to do? That's the way that I think you create a real lasting change with people. But in all the cases like for example um you know I I I noticed I was in India and I see all these kids dying of water borne disease and I said this is insane. So I found a group of people there and now we're providing quarter of a million people with fresh water every single day and my goal is to get to a million people. We're expanding the size of it. But in the in the when it came to the air I'm fortunate enough to have a private plane a BBJ it uses I'm conscious of the of what it burns in terms of fuel and trees. So I was like okay I found out what my burn was it's about 3,000 trees a year. I'm planting 100 million trees. I've already planted 71 million but I didn't just plant the trees to your description. I work with this group called Trees for the Future and throughout parts of Africa east and west we go in and we create these forests. I provide the water and the trees and they go through four years of training and usually they have one crop a year and if it work out they're dead and they make $125 a day a buck 25 a day which is just not 125 buck 25 a day which is insane. But by the time we provide the water and we show them what to do they have a crop every single month so if one doesn't come through they're still fine. They don't try to make it across the desert and die. They believe farming can still work. They stay in their community and they make about 12 and a half dollars a day which doesn't sound like much but it makes them wealthy in that community. So again they're learning and participating. So when you want to plant when I want to plant 100 million trees we're at 71 million um I'll just give you just a a quick point there. We have about I think 3 trillion trees on the planet right now. Uh one of the projects a dear friend of both of ours Marc Benioff is focused on is a trillion trees project. If we can plant an additional trillion trees it would absorb enough CO2 to take us back to to pre-industrial era CO2 levels in the atmosphere. Yes. Right if you could only build a device that would pull CO2 out of the atmosphere and store it for a long time that would be incredible and if it grew itself it's amazing. beautiful and it makes a difference in the world. But the same thing is true of you got to look at what your passions are. I I was doing an event one time and it was a business event I do all these trainings and during one of the days I have I have people see how to really invest because even though they've worked their heart on their company things like COVID happen and you can have your whole company just shut down overnight by the government so you need another opportunity and so we do a brief investment series on them and then we have them figure out what do they want all this money for? Again what's it for? What's the reason? Right. We have to brainstorm all these things they want to create or do or share and then I always bring in philanthropy into it even somebody who's never ever done it before. And I know this woman about nine years ago stood up and she had tears in her eyes and she said I want to make enough money I want to sponsor children that are being trafficked. She goes I have a friend of a friend who lost their child. It's the most horrific thing on earth and she goes there's an organization called Operation Underground Railroad and they go in and they set these guys up and they don't just save the children. They teach the local police in these countries what to do and how to do it. They're former guys from um from the CIA and really sharp people. So I said well what does it cost to sponsor a child to save a child's life? She had $3,500. So I said okay I'll put up a quarter of a million dollars in matching funds. Let's see what we can do. And by the way that's my strategy. Everything I do I go to those organizations and I say I want matching funds. Now if they don't deliver I still give them the money but I try to just double the impact of everything that I do. Why not? Why not ask? Why don't I empower them? So you can use my name you can use my money. Say I can double the number of results you get. And so that really does take off but in this case I got really inspired and I actually went to Haiti and I went undercover with these guys. I've seen I've seen the photos. Yeah I got to they had this makeup I had to spar on my face the whole thing and uh I just played this role. It was the most disgusting experience of my life and one of the most beautiful. When you see these children that are literally tied by a chain doing tricks 10 or 12 times a day and they're 12 years old they're eight years old. It's just horrific but to see them when they were freed one of the greatest days of my life. You set a goal you set an initial goal there which was how big? Now the original was we're going to save 10,000. We've already saved 29,000 so I want to save 50,000. I grew up in a town of 50,000 so that's where we're moving towards in that area too. It's incredible. Yeah. You know um the the role of philanthropy uh is is critically important. We've we talk a lot about exponential technologies. We talk about moonshots. We talk about changing business models and so forth. And I think just like in our X Prize repeating the next billion it's a long-term solution. Yes. And these moonshots take a decade at least to mature and in the meantime we need to feed those people. That's right. Right? Um you mentioned water. We're getting ready I mentioned earlier we're about getting ready to launch about will be a 130 150 million dollar desalination prize. Yes. And uh that's great but in the interim we still need to give people water. Yes. Um let's talk about education next. Uh, you, along with Elon, were one of the funders of our our global learning X Prize. Yes. And we had on stage here uh Emad Mostaque on Monday. Uh, how let's hear it for Emad? Amazing. Absolutely absolutely a brilliant man, right? And um, he has uh committed a hundred million dollars. I've joined him in that in that journey to go and educate all of the alley. Yes. using that same kind of software, but generative AI. And there's a vision in the future where all of this gets demonetized and democratized where education for the poorest child and education for the richest child is the same. Yes. And so ultimately we're heading that way in the education world. Is there anything else you're focused on? Uh, yeah, I'm just to me it's innovation. I'm just back from Saudi Arabia and Saudi Arabia is really a transformed place if you've not been there in the last five years. Um, you know, four years ago even you couldn't hear music, you couldn't go to a concert, you couldn't go to any movies, women couldn't drive. Uh, if you went to a restaurant there was a woman's restaurant and a men's restaurant. And um, you know, with uh 1979 was a huge year if you study history in the Middle East because not only did you have Iran's revolution, which was really an economic revolution. It wasn't a religious one. The Shah was corrupt, people didn't have any money, but the people who made the thing happen were religious. Now they're running into the same thing again. There's another need and desire for revolution. But at that same time a group of terrorists in that group attacked the Saudis and tried to kill their royal families. And so they tightened their society to a level that seemed insane to anybody in the outside. But today 70% of the people who live in Saudi Arabia weren't alive in 1979. So they have no memory of it, no experience, no upset including Crown Prince who will soon be king as his father's passing. Um, MBS. And so it's interesting because they don't have those limitations and they want to be exposed. They want to be a part of the rest of the world. And you get to see the power of moonshots when a country's aligned. Uh, I was just a child when John F. Kennedy was here, but I remember even Reagan getting people aligned where there was there's a national vision. Where are we going to go? What are we going to do? Why are we going to do it that unify people? Today the vision United States seems to be division is division. Um, it's like how do we differentiate? How do we attack? How do we destroy? Well, you go over there and there's nobody complaining about coming to work three days a week. Uh, and their 2030 goals everyone knows them. I mean everyone in the streets people they they're just they're aligned with them. It's amazing. And there's a drive there. This is their 2030 vision, right? The 2030 vision they have. And so one of those was to have 33% of the population be working women and it's already 37% seven years early. Um, many of you I know probably have seen Neom and think maybe it's not going to happen. I went there, you can see the infrastructure in the dirt already. They're spending a billion, excuse me, a a trillion eight probably by the time they're done. There's a 64 billion dollar giga project where their home base is there. And the level of talent that's been attracted around the world when there's a clear vision, when there's something that's going to change society and the world and people are aligned, it's just amazing. We saw the same thing happen in the UAE. You saw it in Singapore when it was just nothing but dirt. There's, you know, there's there are lessons to be learned from leaders that understand how to take a moonshot, but align a country around it. And this is we've talked about this unless you've got that massive transformative purpose that is fueling your moonshot that you communicate to your teams, you communicate to the world, right? Why is everyone going to work for Elon at SpaceX even though he's he's somewhat of a tyrannical leader, but they love the passion. They love the mission. The clarity of it. At the end of the day, you know, people want that meaning in their life. And you can deal with any, you know, you know, depression is out of control in this country. It is around the world, but especially in this country. And obviously we've seen this massive suicide, overdose and depression explosion that's happened since COVID when everybody trapped in their homes and so forth. And now people don't want to even work so they don't have a sense of meaning. Um, it's it's wonderful to talk about UBI, but I always bring up what's going to be the meaning for people if they don't work. Cuz you can pay for everything and that doesn't make people satisfied, right? We have to do something that's meaningful. And then what's meaningful is different for every person, right? You know? So maybe. I think I think it's easy to come up with solutions in your head, but then there's a reality of how humans work. But But the reality also, Tony, I would say is that a lot of people are working not for what they were passionate about to do as a child. They're working to get food on the table, insurance for their family, just to basically survive. And the question is, and listen, I've gone back and forth and we've had a lot of conversations about technological unemployment. We were talking about doing some programming there together. Uh, at the end of the day, if UBI does exist, the question becomes can that be used to enable someone to educate and to give them the running room and find that thing which they're passionate about. My two cents, which is all it's worth, is two cents. There needs to be some tie to some form of performance or work as well. If there isn't anything there, then it's a handout. Um, I mean otherwise you're inviting it. Don't get me wrong. I mean you know me, I've feed more people than most people ever dream of. I care deeply, but I also know that you can disempower someone by making them so weak. And so I think we have to do both. That's going to be delicate thing. The delicate thing that we're all facing right now is, you know, everybody sees the kind of discovery of fire where AI is becoming real as we speak and exploding. It's going to change every aspect of society. Well, you know, if you forget AI, if all you had was self-driving cars and you think taxi drivers, truck drivers and, you know, Uber drivers. It's five million in the US alone. Right? They're all their jobs are going to go away. Is it going to be three years or five years or seven years? I don't know. Maybe you know better than I do. Maybe Elon can tell us better. He's usually ahead of his ahead of schedule in his descriptions. Yes. So who knows? We've had that conversation. but he's the most brilliant guy in the world, so I'd still listen to him. I might edge out a few years to what he tells me, right? Um, you know, with no disrespect. Just total enthusiasm sometimes goes a long way, but got to do beyond that. Whatever the year is. Whatever the year is, just think about it. Five million jobs. That's how many that we saw during 2008 disappear. They destroyed the entire economy. That's one profession. Who's going to hire someone to be a truck driver to drive only eight hours a day and complain about healthcare and want more money when they can have a self-driving truck that can depreciate and it can work 24 hours a day and be more effective and probably have less insurance. So we are, you know, all of us were farmers. 80, 90% of America was farmers 150 years ago. But, you know, we're not. Today it's 3% farmers, we feed the whole world. The difference is the amount of time we had to change. No one thought back then about, you know, being you know, a web expert of some sort. But the amount of speed of change now is going to create a real disruption change. in the short term. I'm not worried about the long term with jobs. There will be more jobs. But I think short term and our adaptation is the thing that we're going to have to be ready for cuz it's going to disrupt people. Now in places like UAE they actually evaluate every job and how many there are and they let people know going to college there are there aren't that many jobs in this area, but there's more here. That doesn't mean they have to change what they're going for, but they're aware that you're wasting your time going to college studying something that's already antique. You know, so it's really important I think that we look at things and we educate people as a society cuz if we wait until the changes happen, which is pretty much what happened. I remember I was with President Obama and I was saying, "What do you guys discuss about this?" He goes, "Well, you know, we don't really know if the change is going to happen or not happen." I said, "But what if it does?" Yeah. And and it will. We all know it when it finally the change happens, it's like that. You know in this room with exponential changes. The general population and unfortunately a lot of leaders don't think that way. We we have social unrest if we don't get our act together and prepare people for what's coming. All this technology is magnificent. Lightning, you know, electricity and light of a city can kill people. Certainly it'll be used, certainly it'll I think be used for greater good in the long term. We just have to look at the transition time and what that's going to do with human emotion cuz our technology is faster than our emotional and psychological development right now. And that's a scary And light year is faster than our government regulatory capacity. And that that that does scare me. We've had some conversation here about, you know, is this technology regulatable? Uh, can it be steered? Can it be influenced? We can at least educate people of what's coming. But the majority of people actually I'm not the expert, but when you talk to the experts Everybody want to take a short break from our episode to talk about a company that's very important to me and could actually save your life or the life of someone that you love. Company is called Fountain Life. And it's a company I started years ago with Tony Robbins and a group of very talented physicians. You know, most of us don't actually know what's going on inside our body. We're all optimists until that day where you have a pain in your side, you go to the physician in the emergency room and they say, "Listen, I'm sorry to tell you this, but you have this stage three or four going on." And, you know, it didn't start that morning. It probably was a problem that's been going on for some time, but because we never look, we don't find out. So what we built at Fountain Life was the world's most advanced diagnostic centers. We have four across the US today and we're building 20 around the world. These centers give you a full body MRI, a brain, a brain vasculature, an AI-enabled coronary CT looking for soft plaque, DEXA scan, a Grail blood cancer test, a full executive blood workup. It's the most advanced workup you'll ever receive. 150 gigabytes of data that then go to our AIs and our physicians to find any disease at the very beginning when it's solvable. You're going to find out eventually. Might as well find out when you can take action. Fountain Life also has an entire side of the therapeutics. We look around the world for the most advanced therapeutics that can add 10-20 healthy years to your life. And we provide them to you at our centers. So, if this is of interest to you, please go and check it out. Go to fountainlife.com/peter. When Tony and I wrote our New York Times best-seller Life Force, we had 30,000 people reached out to us for FountainLife memberships. If you go to fountainlife.com/peter, we'll put you to the top of the list. Really, it's something that is um for me one of the most important things I offer my entire family, the CEOs of my companies, my friends. It's a chance to really add decades onto our healthy lifespans. Go to fountainlife.com/peter. It's one of the most important things I can offer to you as one of my listeners. All right, let's go back to our episode. Let's talk about um you know, we've we've mentioned, discussed, worked on that that health is the new wealth. Yes. Let's talk about the work that you're doing in health that we've done together and that you're doing elsewhere. I'm uh Should we talk about uh Fountain first or Life Force? Sure. Yeah. So, we wrote a book together. Um I It was initiated because um I'm pretty crazy and I have a pretty nuts schedule and I'm usually on stage, not sitting like this, but we're 12 hours a day, 13 hours a day with people that wouldn't sit for a 3-hour movie that somebody spent $300 million on it got to keep people engaged. And I got a stadium full of people and I got to do that for four, five, six days in a row. So, I've learned those skills. Now, we're doing those when COVID came, uh I had to adapt. If you can imagine, I'm used to stadiums and all of a sudden, Governor California calls up and says, "You can put 100 people in that stadium." I was like, "That's not going to work real well, right?" Um and so, I was like, "Let's go to Vegas. We'll go to Vegas. That's what we'll do." And they never shut down Vegas. 10 days outside of the event Vegas, they shut down Vegas. Then I was like, "Okay, we'll go to Texas." Anybody here from Texas? Yeah. Texas is its own country, right? You guys like uh We do what the hell we want. I talked to the governor. "We're never shutting down," he tells me. I'm going to rent my buddy's church, 15,000 people. 9 days before I go down, they shut down Texas, right? So, I was like, "We'll do this in movie theaters, right? We're going to find this in movie theaters." And so, sure enough, you know, I I'm going to do 1,500 movie theaters, 10 people each. At least have big sound, big and the movie theaters shut down. So, I looked around and said, "I can't do one of these little webinars on a little 52-in screen when I'm used to a stadium." And so, I built the stadium. I built a building of 50-ft high ceilings, put 20-ft high LED screens, 50 ft around. I went to Eric Yuan, who's a friend from Zoom, and said, "You got to give me 25,000 people instead of 1,000." We built software so you could shake it. And now, I did a program in January for 1.5 million people from 195 countries for 6 days. That's how much it was growing to give you an idea. It's just wild. I had a group that followed me for 3 years prior to to this change in my life, which has given me some more balance sort of give me more of the overseas. But uh they measured my body in all these different ways. That's what triggered this book on health. I've always been oriented towards health. I've got to be a peak performer, you have to. And so, if you're going to go 12 hours a day, well, they they followed me for 3 years. They made me wear this device all day long. It's like a $58,000 device. It measures heart rate variability, everything you can imagine. They come do my blood. They came and did my saliva to find out my hormonal shifts. And they found that it I was burning 11,300 calories per day on stage to give you an idea. I said, "That's impossible." But they explained to me that chess players go and burn 4,000 not moving. I was burning 3,500 before I got on the stage just by my focus. And then uh and then I found I jumped 1,000 times um during the day cuz I don't stand on the stage. If this was a real event, I'd be out in the crowd, up in the up in the group, and just kind of like a living room. I can pretty much hug you guys here. I'm not doing anything. But in order to do that, I'm jumping 1,000 times. Well, I weigh 282 lb. Every time you jump and come down, it's four times your body weight. So, imagine 1,000 lb times 1,000 jumps, a million pounds of pressure each day for, you know, 46 years. This is my 46th year. I started when I was two. And uh Hey. So, but anyway, the bottom line is the if you've ever been running with a friend and you can't speak anymore, it's cuz the lactic acid has built up to a four. I was at 18, still speaking. So, I tell you this because along the way, I'm used to like deliver all this and then suddenly, I had two challenges. One was I didn't find out till afterwards I was starting to lose my memories. I was like, "I'm on stage. I don't have any notes. I go 12 hours a day and suddenly, I'm saying a story and like, why was I telling this story?" And I was good enough in what I'm doing that most people didn't know, but I knew. It was freaking me out. And so, I found out that I had massive mercury poisoning. On a zero to five scale, what he measured at a five, I was 123, the highest they'd ever measured. And uh You don't do anything small, do you, Tony? No, I tend to do the small. They actually sent I did this in New York and they sent the health department out to my house in Florida cuz they thought maybe my wife was trying to kill me since I have a large life insurance policy, which she was not, fortunately. Um but I I was a vegan for so many years, like 14 years, and then I wanted more protein. I I went to just fish. But my fish was swordfish and tuna. And swordfish and tuna are 75-year-old fish. They eat all the smaller fish to absorb all of their mercury, and my body doesn't methylate well. So, as the result was, I was losing my my memories, all my energy, it's destroying your ATP, everything else. I had to detox that. And then in the middle of that, I decided to be an idiot and follow a professional 20-year-old snowboarder down a mountain. And let's just say I did not make the same moves he did. And um and I ended up I thought I broke my neck and I ripped my rotator cuffs so severely. So, I go to four different doctors, all really brilliant, you know, surgeons, and they're all like surgery, surgery, surgery. And I said, "What about stem cells?" And they said, "Oh, no, those they'll never work." And then I called Peter and I said, "Who's the best in stem cells in the world?" I said, "I don't know if you know." So, he interviews I known Bob before, but I didn't make the connection between Bob Bob Ury, right? And so, Bob and I talked and you know, it's like it's kind of like, "Let me introduce you to my friend Bob Ury about stem cells." It's like, "Let me introduce you to LeBron James. He'll teach you about basketball." It's kind of that pressure. And so, Bob said, "Tony, you know, they're right. If you do your own stem cells after 40, you just don't have them. But if you could get cord stem cells," and he told me where to go, and I did it. And Peter knows. 4 days later, my arm was perfect. 4 days. From such nerve pain, I couldn't barely breathe to perfect. No surgery. Uh the prognosis before was it would be six to, you know, eight weeks minimum, maybe 90 days, maybe more. You can re-tear. I've had friends I told about. One has gone and done this. The other one did the traditional path. He's re-tore it twice. So, I decided I want to write a book on the very best. It's like I did in finance. Go interview the best in the world. And the best person to do it with was Peter. So, we did it together. And then, you know, it's just like when I did the financial book, I wrote this financial book. And at the end of it, it was 670 pages and it's, you know, still the number one financial book of the last 20 years. But I was like, "People won't all do this. They need someone to hold their hand." So, they need a fiduciary. Somebody who's a real fiduciary, not somebody claims they're fiduciary. So, I found 10 top fiduciaries and I recommend the book. I took no money for the book. I donated all the money for the book. And then sure enough, I find out about 6 months later that there's this gray area in the law where someone can say they're your fiduciary and a minute later, they're a broker. They just changed their hat angle and you don't know the difference. And then me so angry, I wrote a new book. I kicked all those people off of it and put together a new partnership. And then in that partnership, we took a company called Creative Planning from 18 billion to 50 billion in AUM. They did an unbelievable job and now they're at 200 billion. And so, I've sold my interest in it, but I decided we should do the same thing in health. We need to give people the answers they can do on their own, but we should find a location. And so, together, we really formed with uh two of our partners, FountainLife. Yeah. Uh yeah, it was it was amazing. We uh launched that now some four years ago. And ultimately, wanted a place that we could send people that would have the highest level diagnostics and therapeutics. It's still expensive. And that's a problem, all right? Uh demonetizing and democratizing this. And we have out of the book, I think a wait list of like 30 locations that want to do it. Yeah. But I think the real innovation for us was the the health insurance side. That's right. So, so if you think about this, 14% of the people that come to FountainLife, we do full body MRIs, we do everything. And then many of you know now, there's like the Grail test that can find up to 50 different cancers. You know, the challenge with cancer is most of the cancers that kill us because we find them at stage three and stage four. And usually, that's because we don't have a test for it. Most of cancers we don't have 70% of all cancers that kill you are not being tested for. That's correct. And so, uh the study shows that if you get it at stage three or stage four diagnosis, you have an 80% chance of dying. I prefer the 20% chance of living, but their point is if you get it at level first stage or second, you have between 90 and 99.9% chance of survival. So, we have people come in. 14% of the people that come through our centers have a life-threatening issue they don't know about that we can handle immediately. And I had one friend that went to his uh his wife kept pushing him and pushing him and I said, "You know, you might want to listen to your wife. She's got good ideas here." He said, "Oh, I've been to the doctor." You think about what a physical is today. It's the same crap that you went through 50 years ago. It's absurd. You don't really learn anything. And yet we have all this incredible data that we can pull out, you know? So, people come in and they discover he came in and found out that he had kidney cancer at stage one. Went out-patient procedure, took him 45 minutes, and he's totally fine. I can't tell you how many people come to me and said, "It saved my life." So, 40% of the people that come see there's multiple things they can do to massively increase their energy. It's either a hormonal issue or some other balance as well. So, people come in and they discover things. But we were talking about how do we make this, you know, financially able for people? And so, we formed, you know, a life insurance company. I should say health insurance company rather. Where it costs the same amount of money as any other health insurance, but what we do is we do all this testing up front. We invest in the money up front. Most of the expenses on the back end where people are dying. So, we not only save lives, the most important thing, but we make it economically feasible for people to be able to have all their employees know where they stand right now. Catch it when it's little. Now, I was one of the people who used to like, "I don't want to know this stuff. I don't want to hear all this." You know, you might find something that's really not there, but I was totally wrong. When you dig in with the data we have today, the false positives are so small, you're crazy to You're going to find out eventually. When do you want to know? That's true. Yeah. And you know, it's a it's a transformation and it drives me nuts. Uh the health care system we have in the United States at least is so expensive and its performance is so poor. And we need a a revolution and And it's disease care. It's not health It's disease care. Um and so, there is nothing more valuable than your health. Yep. So, I'm very proud of the of the team and what we've done there. And if it works successfully, we're in a situation at the end of the day that will transform and flip the insurance company. Right? Fire insurance pays you after your house burns down. Health insurance pays you after you're sick. Life insurance pays your next of kin after you're dead. Right? Let's flip that business model. Great opportunities if you have an insurance business out there. Uh Tony, one of the big challenges and questions we've talked a lot about at least last few days is mental health. And uh you know, what can't we do? We're going to eventually, you know, we have some incredible technology from Mary Lou Jepsen, uh who's here, who's learning how to, you know, has been reading and writing onto neurons and can eventually transform your mental status, how emotionally, can use that to uh measure blood flow in the brain for stroke analysis, ultimately disrupt glioblastomas. Incredible work. Yes. But it turns out that you have been doing that in an amazing way. Can you talk about the work and the studies recently done on mental health? Well, I got Depression in particular. Yeah. Depression's out of control. Um one of the reasons it's out of control is people today have no compelling future, kids today. Um you know, you hear many millennial kids now, when I say kids, I mean it's the oldest ones are 41, 42 years old now. Uh and next generation talking about not having any children because they believe the story that the whole world is going to hell, that we're going to have an ecological disaster, and how could I raise my child in this environment? Or they think we're so divided. I mean, if I showed you images of John Adams and Jefferson and what they said about each other, you'd see that nothing has changed in all this time period. We just have some Yeah, yeah, somebody has it. Can you throw it up on the screen? Just Yeah, put it up. It's funny. It says, "You know, if you elect Thomas Jefferson, he's a murderer, he's a robber, he's a rape, incest, adulterer who will whose practice will be practiced throughout the land. You're prepared to see your dwellings in flames, female chastity violated, our children writhing in pike." And this is John Adams talking about Thomas Jefferson. And you can see Jefferson talking about him. He's importing mistresses from Europe and trying to marry one of his sons to a daughter of King George. He's a hideous hermaphrodite character with neither the force of firmness of a man nor the gentleness and sensibility of a woman. Wow, he makes Trump look act Those are our founding fathers talking about each other, right? So, I guess I guess the whole Trump thing's been around longer than we think, right? You know. Um but my point is that we need a compelling future. Anyone can deal with a tough today if they have a compelling tomorrow, but we aren't providing that. There's no vision anymore communicated. Everything is about how to rationalize, make it smaller. It's not It's the opposite of what this conference is about. It's not about abundance. It's about scarcity, and it's just not true. Um I remember I when I was in junior high school, I had this this teacher that came in one day and he was always doing these weird things, and we were I was wondering if I was ever going to drive a car cuz some of you are old enough to remember when we had gas rationing in the '70s under Carter, and I didn't have a car yet, but people had to stand in line for about a mile long, and depending upon whether your license plate ended in an odd or even number determined whether you could even buy gas that day, regardless of the line. And I remember he came in and he read this document, and it was from the New York Times, and it talked about lights out. We're out of oil. Everything's going to stop. And you know, we've seen this the the Club of Rome did this in the '70s. We've heard over and over we're all going to die, right? It's just not true. But what's really interesting, he read this article at the end, it was whale oil. Whale oil. It was from the New York Times in the 1800s, 1850s. It was great. But to answer your question specifically, during COVID, uh I was approached by Stanford University, and they said they had two of their uh professors that had attended one of my programs called Date with Destiny. Some of you, if you if you go on Netflix, there's a documentary on it if you're interested in seeing it. It's called Tony Robbins: I'm Not How many folks here have been to Date with Destiny? Holy Yeah. And it's one of the most transformative, amazing programs on the planet. You know, if there are a couple things I wish I had done when I was younger in my life, that was most definitely one of them. That one, Burning Man, ayahuasca, you know, move it up 30 years. I'm glad I'm thrown in right next to Burning Man. That's awesome. But they said, "We had two of our professors go through this 6-day program of yours, and we can't believe it. They have no symptoms of depression. And we're curious, do you have any data on this?" And I said, "Well, data, I've got hundreds of thousands of clients, millions of clients, but with testimonials and stories, and I know what happens. You're changing the focus. You're changing the meaning, which changes the biochemistry." And they said, "Well, how about we do a study then?" I said, "Great." And they I said, "Well, what What do you want to study?" They said, "Just depression, how effective this is with them." I said, "Well, I mean, you're going to find it to be very effective, but what's the best? What's the what do the meta-studies show?" And I don't know if you guys are aware of it, but 60% of the people that go in for treatment of depression with drugs and or therapy do not get an ounce better. 60%. Only 40% improve. And according to meta-studies, half the improvement is about 50% improvement. So, they're half as depressed as they were, and they're taking medications that on the side says create suicidal thoughts in some cases. And I don't know if you saw the cover of of Newsweek recently. It was about 3 or 4 months ago, but you know, the meta-studies now show the SSRIs don't work. But we're still feeding them people. It's just insane. So, I said, "Okay, 40%." I said, "Hell, you could do that well with a placebo." And they said, "Almost." And I said, "So, what's been the That's the meta-study. What's been the single best study you've ever produced?" And they said, "3 and 1/2 years ago at Johns Hopkins, they did a study where they gave people psilocybin, Yep. magic mushrooms, and cognitive therapy for a month. So, you're stoned for a month and talking for a month. Something's got to change, right? You know. And um and so, sure enough, you know, the greatest result they've ever seen in the history of psychiatry. Uh 30 days later, 54% of the people had no symptoms whatsoever after 30 days of this this drug, but unfortunately, it's illegal. And uh no one has really followed through on it. There's people trying to pass a law to get it involved in therapists. So, I said, "Great. Why don't you use the same contrasting group as that? Model that study, and let's do it." So, they did. And the results were so insane that they they didn't publish them right away. They blind sent the data to two different organizations, and then finally, they published it in the Journal of Psychiatry last year. 100% of the people 30 days later having no drugs, 100% not a single symptom of depression. Not one. And nine uh 17% of the participants had when they went in had suicidal ideation of committing attempting suicide or thoughts of suicide. Zero at the end of those. But the thing I was most proud of is a year later, 11 months later, they tested people again with no further interaction from you whatsoever, and they had a 72% reduction in negative emotions, a 51% improvement in positive emotions. So, it's just uh it's extraordinary. Why does it work? That's what they wanted to know. And it's biochemical. So, remember I told you they followed me for 3 years. Well, one of the things that one of the groups does this work with Stanford is they do this performance modeling like on Tom Brady and people of that nature, some sports teams that have continually dominated like the Warriors. And uh sure enough, they find that there's a biochemical change in people people that can perform at the highest level under stress. And they call it the championship uh biochemistry. And what it is very simply is a guy like Tom Brady, he's, you know, there's 2 minutes left. He's down by 10 points. And you know, we've seen him do this over and over, come back and win Super Bowls. How does he do it? Well, he gets a surge of testosterone, which my body does explosively, at levels that you rarely see. And then the cortisol, which is the stress hormone, drops through the floor. So, as a result, you have all this drive and total clarity without fear. And what's interesting is every time they measure me, I do this, but when we started doing this, they did it with my live audience. Then they started measuring when we did this digitally. So, we got people all over the world doing an event, and they're all in their homes, and I didn't even think I could pull that off and have it be effective, but we figured ways to do it. And they went sent people around the world and measured them as well. And if you know mirror neurons, these people's biochemistry literally mirrors my bio biochemistry. It looks like music. We all go into that championship state. And in that state also, with that testosterone increase, your cognitive capacity explodes massively. They did another study at Stanford where they just did increase in cognitive capacity, for example, and they saw 300% increase out of my event and contrasting it against the number one most uh popular professor at Stanford teaching my exact content. He got great improvements, but 30 days later, it was gone. And the reason is I I believe in what I call EQ-ing. EQ-ing is I got to create a biochemical change in you for you to change. It's not just intellectual. Otherwise, it doesn't last, right? And it's got to be somewhat conditioned. So, I believe you got to entertain people first, especially today's society. We're not an information society. There's too much information. We're drowning in information, starving for wisdom. So, especially young people, got to entertain them. So, I entertain them so that, you know, a long time is you're not enjoying yourself, right? Could be 2 minutes. A great time, hours go by. So, we produce that entertainment, then we empower people. We shift them biochemically by movement, by music, and so forth to make a real shift. Then while they're in that state, we get them to do things to develop new habits. And a combination of those three things creates a long-term impact of retention and then cognitive impact and but more importantly behavioral change. Everybody, this is Peter. A quick break from the episode. You know, I'm a firm believer that science and technology and how entrepreneurs can change the world is the only real news out there worth consuming. I don't watch the crisis news network, I call CNN or Fox and hear every devastating piece of news on the planet. I spend my time training my neural net the way I see the world by looking at the incredible breakthroughs in science and technology, how entrepreneurs are solving the world's grand challenges, what the breakthroughs are in longevity, how exponential technologies are transforming our world. So, twice a week I put out a blog. One blog is looking at the future of longevity, age reversal, biotech, increasing your health span. The other blog looks at exponential technologies, AI, 3D printing, synthetic biology, AR, VR, blockchain. These technologies are transforming what you as an entrepreneur can do. If this is the kind of news you want to learn about and shape your neural nets with, go to diamandis.com/blog and learn more. Now, back to the episode. Tony, you're also playing in the extraordinary world of energy. it's a big, complex area, but can you tell us about the moonshot you're taking in that area? Well, there's there's several technologies that I've been exposed to over time that can make a difference and and I'm working some of my friends in the Middle East as leverage to take those things to scale. I can't actually I just signed a a deal, potential deal and and I so I can't give you the details, but I'll I'll give you just what's available. You know, here you know, in California you see the governor here is a beautiful man and he comes out and says you can't have you know, combustion cars by what is it 2030 and 2 weeks later you can't plug in your electric car cuz there's not enough electricity to support it. So, we we're ahead of our skis. Anybody who's intelligent knows this. I was just interviewed Jamie from JP Morgan. Jamie Dimon. And Jamie Dimon and he was acknowledging all these this ESG, we've we've screwed ourselves over. We're saying we're going to do this and we don't have the technology and I'm everybody wants green energy, but we don't have the conversion, we have the storage, we have the capacity. And so, the price is going crazy. Here in LA, the price was 8 cents a kilowatt hour, it's 49 cents they just approved. So, people like us it doesn't affect, but the average person it affects massively. And we all want green energy green energy. So, just we got to make sure that it works. And so, I love that you're going to do the sequestration project here. I think that's fantastic carbon, but there's one organization and again, I'm sorry I can't talk about the details now, but we'll be publicizing it as soon as it's confirmed in the next 45 days. Can you talk about the basic technology? you the how it works. They're able to take any hydrocarbon, so oil, gas or coal and subtract the carbon out of it before they burn it and they sequester that in graphite. And graphite is a core ingredient that's needed for everything you can imagine from batteries on down. but what's amazing is they can create pure green hydrogen then and this is not like in a lab, I've actually seen it in a particular location where it's the first location where it's working. Hydrogen pure power, nothing but moisture, carbon totally sequestered, you don't need to have a prize to do it. I was thinking they should probably come up and apply for your prize and get the 100 million added to their list. Um cuz they're doing it right now. But the the side effect of it, there's two side effects that are amazing. One is, okay, you get graphite. Well, they make graphite at $50 a ton and it costs $500 a ton. Now, graphene, many of you are probably familiar with, was discovered I think 14 years ago. It's 200 times stronger than steel, it's 100 times lighter than than paper. It has greater conductivity than copper. There are more applications pending for applications to this, you know, for the federal government, but almost nothing's being used cuz the cost between 67,000 and 200,000 a metric ton. So, it's so expensive no one can really use it yet. They can make it as a side product between 3,500 and 5,000 a ton. So, everything I've seen thus far is there. I'm going through validation process with some very potent people. And if it goes forward, they'll start converting plants. What's great is there's 3,800 power plants that produce a third of the CO2 in the world and you don't have to care about them about the environment. You're being pressured to anyway, but even if you didn't care, you'll do it because they can convert a plant in less than 12 months, costs about 125 million, they get all their money back within 7 months from just the side benefits. You can take a plant that was earning 50 or 60 million and earn 3 to 500 million from the same power plant. So, instead of shutting down the power plants and not having them and losing those jobs, we convert them to clean energy immediately. This is technology that currently exists and again, until I've seen the final final final verifications everything, I hold back, but there'll be something to be announced quickly and states are looking at it right now. This is an example of the kinds of breakthroughs that are materializing, they're enabling us to slay these grand challenges that are so scary when you first hear about them. the human mind comes in to fill the void, to solve it over and over again. The the biggest challenge I think we have is the media. They're good people. There's no one in the media that's a bad person, but they're doing what they're paid for. They got to get make money for their shareholders. There's only one way, get your attention. Yeah. Again, it's an attention economy now. And what gets your attention? You In the old days when we bought newspapers and you walked by, if it said good weather this weekend, you kept walking. If there's a big storm coming, you put in your 50 cents and got the paper. Today, it follows you in your pocket. And now, you and you and I both know the story doesn't even have to be truthful. All they need is the headline to grab you. Once you click on it, they're paid. So, we have a we have a tough situation in that we're constantly feeding the worst possible scenario to people and then wondering why people don't why they're depressed, why they don't want to move forward with children, why people don't want to go to work. And I think it's our job to shut that off and take back control of our own minds and do the best we can for our kids and family and that nature as well.