---
title: "Fintech and the Future of Payments"
year: 2016
medium: "video-transcript"
source: "YouTube"
url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e6Ns-nvlBes"
transcribed_via: "Groq whisper-large-v3"
license_posture: "public-broadcast"
ingested: true
---

# Fintech and the Future of Payments (2016)
Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e6Ns-nvlBes

Jack Forestell is the global head of product at Visa, and that sounds like the most important job at Visa. You're on the right track. He's responsible for product strategy globally, development, management. He has to make sure that their existing products are keeping up with changing customer needs. He has to make sure that the capabilities will grow as the customer needs change. Before this, he spent 12 years at Capital One. He was the head of Capital One Digital. In that role, he led online mobile banking, mobile payments, digital product design, and he also ran Capital One Labs. Before that, he was part of their U.S. credit card consumer portfolio. In his past life, he was also a member, a senior partner at Mercer Management Consulting. To say that he's got his finger on the pulse of how one of the major incumbents in payments can play in this space, I think would be an understatement. Please join me in welcoming Jack to the stage. All right. Good morning. How are you guys doing? Good. I'll tell you what, I'm excited to be here. I'm excited to be here with all of you, but no offense, but even more than that, I'm excited to be in the middle of payments at this moment in time. There's so much opportunity ahead of us. All the technology that Daniel talked about, connectivity, data, we're just at the very beginning of using all of that to radically transform how consumers experience commerce and payment and interact with their money. We at VC, we operate in about 200 countries around the world, and I get to spend a lot of time in a lot of them, and I can tell you firsthand, you know, it's really going on out there, whether it's WeChat in China, or Paytm in India, or M-Pesa in Sub-Saharan Africa, or guys like Daniel right here in Canada. It is really starting to happen, and it's pretty exciting times. And, you know, like I said, we operate in about 200 countries, and I get to spend a lot of time in all of them. Tell you what, I'm standing in one of my very favorites right now. Honestly, Canada's been on the front foot on payments, technology, and innovation for a really long time. From our perspective, Canada moved over to EMV chip almost a decade ago, before most of the rest of the world. Canada anticipated digital payments by building out contactless payments acceptance way before most of the rest of the world. Our big partners in Canada in the financial institution space got out in front and started experimenting with mobile payments years ago before most countries even thought about mobile payments. So it's a pretty cool place to be to be talking about this right now. By the way, those are all my rational reasons why this is my favorite market. My emotional reason is I'm Canadian too. I grew up here. It's kind of nice to be home. And so my history with commerce and payments in this market, you know, goes back to the time I was a little kid, and I'd say it actually predates when I was even born. And I'll bet you, you know, there are going to be a lot of people through this conference, by the way. I'll be talking about millennials and technology. I bet you won't see this slide again for the rest of the week. But anyway, my great-grandfather, Harry Forrestal, and his brothers owned a little shop in St. John, New Brunswick. And I often think, you know, all the technology, the connectivity, the data, the processing power, in a way, what they're going to enable us to do, what they are starting to enable us to do, is to go back to the future. is think about how commerce was back in great-grandfather Harry's shop. You walked in, and he knew your name. He knew when you were last in there. He knew what you bought the last time you were there. He procured products for you to try because he knew what you liked. It was a very personal, a very custom kind of experience, and that's what shopping and commerce was like way back then. Now, somewhere on the way from Harry's shop to the 100,000 square foot megastore, we lost a little bit of the joy of commerce. We lost a little bit, a lot, of the ability to customize. And so I would say we shouldn't forget, as we charge ahead, we're going to talk a lot over the next few days about payments and the infrastructure and the technology and the security and all those wonderful things. But let's not forget the reason we're doing this is to create great experiences for consumers in the commerce space. In fact, the payment part, maybe, I know this may be heretical to stay in this room, it maybe not that big of a deal in the grand scheme of this experience Even thinking back to the old hairy shop here right Does anyone I date myself now does anyone remember how the Ingalls paid the Olsons Right? Or how Alice paid Sam and the Brady Bunch? You probably don't remember, because they just said, hey, thanks a lot, put it on my account. And that's how easy it was. and frankly, we as an industry, we as an ecosystem have made it that easy for 60 years. This is from 1958. 1958 Bank of America made put it on my account easy for everybody. The shopkeeper didn't have to manage it anymore. It became a shared system. Launched Bank of America in 58. It became ChargeX here in Canada, if anyone remembers that, in 1968 and we call it Visa today, but man, it works, right? And if you see in the middle of that picture, there's something that looks a lot like this. This thing's been around since 1958. Back then, it was a little piece of celluloid with some numbers embossed on it, but boy, the people who did my job before me, I have a great deal of respect for. This is a miraculous little device. The amount of innovation that has gone into this, it's gone from that little piece of celluloid to mag stripes and holograms and EMV chips and track data and CV. We could nerd out on this all day long. But what we've got to is that I can take this anywhere in those 200 countries I was talking about earlier, and I can swipe it, I can dip it, I can tap it, and as a consumer, I can have a great deal of confidence that I can make commerce happen in sub-second time. I don't have to worry about my money or my security. I can make it all happen. So look, I will say, I think these are going to be around for a long time. They're important. They work really well. And part of the reason, in a way, that mobile payment and emerging digital payment has been a little bit slower to happen in this industry than in other industries. You know, people talk about the reinvention of music and photography and that. We haven't seen it happen as much. It's because this actually works really, really well already. But we can't stick our head in the sand and say, hey, well, this thing's great, so let's not worry about it. Of course, some really big, important things are happening out there. And about 10 years ago, this really big, important thing happened, right? And I'll bet every single person in this room has at least one of these. And I bet a whole bunch of people in the room have even more than one of these. I don't really know why, but I'm pretty sure. I bet it's true. Anyway, these things are changing our lives profoundly, right? We are connected to one another. We're on all the time. We're changing the way we experience all kinds of things. They're just changing everything about our lives. And man, it's not all good. I have a 14-year-old daughter at a break sometime. We can talk about all the ways they're changing our lives that may not be that good. Anyway, they really are changing. They're starting to change the way people shop and the way people pay in really, really meaningful ways. People like me have stood on stages like this and rooms like this for almost 10 years now. And every year we say, this is the year, man. Mobile payment starts now. I can remember saying that in 2008, and then not much happened. I know I said it again in 2009. So I'm going to stop saying that. But what I will say is, there's not going to be a day, there's not going to be a year we all look back and say, oh, it was June 14, 2016, it all started then. It's going to happen over time. And what I will say definitively is it's really started to happen. When I look at the data that we have, we process over $5 trillion worth of transactions a year at Visa. And when I look into that data, what I see is the reality is most of it's still here. Most of it's still face-to-face transactions with these things. But when you look at the growth rates, When I look at the growth rates on transactions that happen with one of these, with a real person standing at a terminal, those transactions are growing low single-digit growth rate. Not bad in a kind of challenging global economy, but low single-digit growth rate. When I look at payments that are originated from a mobile device last year, still, it's It's only a few percent of overall payment volumes, but it grew last year at over 50%. 50. So I ask you, in your business, which one do you want? You want low single digit, or do you want 50% growth? If you are about growth you have to have a strategy for commerce and payments for here And by the way I talk about this This is kind of the anchor tenant We all carrying these things around We spend more time with them than any human in our life right now. But it's not just that. It's everything. Everything is becoming connected. As Moore's Law plays itself out, and the cost of processing and the cost of connectivity and the cost of storage, it's lower and lower and lower. Everything is getting connected. And once something has a chip in it and it's connected and it has a little ability to do some input-output, it can be payment-enabled. I'm a little bit of a tech junkie myself. I was trying to count all the devices in my house the other day that could be payment-enabled, and I stopped at 50. It's really getting to that point. I mean, all of this stuff up here can be payment enabled, and it's just going to keep growing and growing and growing, and that is the direction that we're heading in. Now, as a participant in the payments ecosystem, I must admit, and some of you might be in the same boat, I look at this and think, wow, my head's going to explode. How am I supposed to build for that, right? This kind of ever-increasing waterfront of ways that consumers can experience payment. To that I would say we probably shouldn't get too hung up on the form factor, the hardware. Because to be honest, there's stuff up here that's going to come, and there's stuff up here that's going to go. Years from now, we might all laugh about half of the things that are on this page. But I tell you, there's one thing that binds it all together that's going to be a constant that will stand the test of time, and that's software. Everything up there runs on software. And if you didn't know it, you are now in the consumer software business if you are in the payment space, because that is effectively what's happening. this is turning in to a consumer software based experience and frankly if there's if there's just like one thing that you could take away from my little 15 20 minute talk here today because i know i could only ever remember one thing um it's that like think about that and really internalize it Think about your own institutions. Think about the talent you have, the culture you have, the processes you have, and then think about, I'm in the consumer software business. Think about what companies like Daniel's here are doing and how they're mobilizing, and really think about the changes that you need to make to be as iterative and fast and competitive in this new world of consumer software. I know at Visa, that's what we're trying to do. We're trying to facilitate the migration from what we all know and love so well into the software-based world. And let me share with you just a couple of the things we're doing to help with that. First and foremost, security. That'll be second as well. First and second is security, security, security, security. Because the reality is, if we don't land this migration from plastic to digital in a way that's frankly more secure than the old world, it's never going to get anywhere. It is absolutely table stakes. And let's be honest. The first forays of the payments ecosystem into digital payments in the earlier days of e-commerce weren't really that good in security. right we we we didn't manage to find ways to harness the power of computing and data to make digital payments more secure they were actually less secure and the bad guys went away from the chip and they went over to digital payments we can't let that happen so we're doing a couple of things i'm sure you've all heard plenty about tokenization um that's our fancy word for kind of getting rid of the account number. Let's just devalue that data, make it worthless. And that's really all it is. It's taking away that 16-digit number that people have been typing into things and storing all over the place in fairly unsecure ways and replacing it with a new number that's got EMV chip quality cryptography attached to it and where that number is dynamically attached to a use case or a device. It can only be used on that phone. It can only be used in that merchant. It can only be used in that whatever you want. And this one's up and running. This is going in about six countries now. All the major mobile platforms are using it. The challenge now is not to prove that it works, because it does. It's about taking it and scaling it up and making it the de facto solution for credential security. But, look, we know the bad guys are really smart So once we secure the credential we know where they going to go next You can say oh well there no value in stealing credentials anymore The next thing I want to do is steal identities right Because if I can control your identity, then it doesn't really matter if you secured the credential. So this one's a little bit earlier stage, but we are working hard on it. and I would encourage all of you to be thinking hard about it and to be thinking about it at a market and ecosystem level. What kind of standards do we want to create around consumer authentication? I think the endgame answer isn't going to be about something I know, like a PIN or a password. It's not going to be about something I have, like a card. It's going to be about something I am. It's going to be about me, right? It's going to be about biometric inputs like fingerprints and facial recognition and retina scans and voice recognition. That's going to be the answer in the end. But that's going to be hard to get to. You have to be realistic about it. We're making a little bit of progress with these devices. You know, the fingerprint scan on it is good. But if you think about the challenge of making biometric authentication ubiquitous, the input of all of that, the reference data. It's going to take some time. So we're going to be in a middle ground for a while, and so we're working hard on other solutions, too. There's a lot of data out there. We're creating data by the minute. One of my fun facts is there will be more photographs taken in the next five minutes than in the first 150 years of photography. That's all data. It's not just the picture. It carries with it all kinds of other data about location and time in context, we can use that data too. So we can embed that into biometric security. So look, those are a couple things on security. But look, when we make this transition, security's a prerequisite. It's table stakes. But it's not enough, right? Think about yourself as a consumer. Am I going to switch out from something I know that's really easy to something else that's digital just because it's digital and it's secure? Probably not. What we need to do is really make it rich. We make it immersive. We make a new set of experiences out of it. And I could take up another 20 minutes talking just about the things that we're trying to do and build in this space, but I won't because I'm going to get, the pushing is going to happen in a second here. But I will say one thing. I don't think any of us, I don't care if you're the biggest payments network in the world, I don't care if you're the biggest mobile operating platform in the world or the biggest retailer in the world or the biggest bank in your market, none of us is going to have the solution to making commerce and payments great in the software-based world. None of us. We'll get there faster and we'll get there better if we open ourselves up and we collaborate and we enable each other and we build solutions together, right? I keep picking on Daniel. We've got to let the Daniels of the world operate on top of all this stuff, and we've got to do the same thing amongst ourselves. And so in February of this year at Visa, we did something that was a big deal for us. We opened VisaNet publicly as an open developer platform. This is a real screenshot. You can go see it at developer.visa.com. and we've started making all of our services available as easy-to-consume, restful APIs, web services, that you can all go out there and try. There are about 400 different things that can happen when you swipe a Visa card, and our intent is to get them all up and running. I think we've got about 170 of them up there so far. So remember, you're in the software business. We've got to make it secure. We've got to be open. So let's build some great stuff together. Thank you. That was amazing, Jack. Only a guy from New Brunswick comes to a payments conference and says payments don't matter. But it's interesting, you know, the consumer experience now, for me it's Uber. I don't pay, right? I get in, I get out, I don't pay. That's what I want. It's Visa, of course, that's paying. That's the underlying platform. So what I'm taking away, as well as you're all in the software business, is getting that underlying network right, getting the guts right, and then forgetting about it is surely the most important thing. So here we are, talking about that. Collaboration is obviously going to be the way that this is going to work. You know, I love the OpenAPI. There's a great story, you probably know it in this room, of Reed Hastings going into Blockbuster's offices very early on and saying, you do your business, I'll do your streaming. And he was laughed out. Seven years later, they were bankrupt. I don't hear any blockbuster mentality in this room and that's as a consumer and frankly as a Canadian and a member of the world economy that's exciting this is exciting stuff so I hope you guys enjoyed your rapid-fire keynotes it's time now to go to your breakouts I think you have time for a quick break your breakouts start at 940 but make your way there don't dawdle and we'll see you back in here after lunch which is across the street at 1 p.m.
