# Visa Product Drop 2025: Full Replay — Keynote Transcript

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=atiskafZIJo
Date: April 30, 2025
Event: Visa Global Product Drop, San Francisco
Speakers: Ryan McInerney (CEO), Jack Forestell (CPSO), partners (Anthropic, OpenAI, Microsoft, Mistral, Perplexity, Samsung, Stripe)
Duration: 81 min (4863s) — full event
Transcribed via Groq whisper-large-v3, chunked into 4×25min segments and concatenated.
Captured: 2026-04-28 for jack-claw voice corpus.

---

Please welcome Visa's Ryan McInerney. Welcome and hello. Welcome to Visa's Global Product Drop, where we are going to showcase the future of payments, money movement, and commerce. Thank you for being here today, those of you in the room. Thank you for being here today, those of you that are online, and most importantly, thank you for your partnership. Visa simply would not exist without your partnership and your trust, so thank you. We all live in a digital world at this point, and increasingly around the world, payments are increasingly digital. Our founder, Dee Hock, he foresaw this decades ago. Money movement would become nothing more than guaranteed alphanumeric data in the form of an arranged electrons and photons which would move around the world at the speed of light. He saw this decades ago. And at first, it was data that was moving between buyers and sellers, a few buyers and sellers here in Northern California where Visa was founded. And today, it's data moving between 14,500 financial institutions, billions of consumers that have close to 5 billion Visa credentials, 150 million sellers in 200 countries and territories around the world every second, every day of the year. And Dee and Visa saw that digital money was not just about being faster, it would be better. It would enable buyers and sellers who don't know each other and have absolutely no reason to trust each other to exchange value in milliseconds. and desaw the value of the network effects, that bringing more banks onto the network would bring more buyers and more sellers and ultimately more value for communities all around the world. And that founding goal, even as the technologies evolved and buyer and seller preferences evolved, hasn't changed, to connect buyers and sellers through seamless, secure digital payments and supporting the rise of commerce all around the world. Now, 60 years ago, Visa made a really important decision to move from one bank, Bank of America, to include all banks around the world, and in the process, creating the first open payments ecosystem. And we had the rise of the internet and e-commerce, which Visa helped create, and the rise of mobile commerce and things like that. And last year, starting from that one idea in Northern California, we had 230 billion transactions, 630 million transactions a day. And if you go back to the year 2000, which is kind of the beginning of e-commerce, and jump forward to today, that 25-year period, we've had so many transactions on this network, 3.3 trillion transactions on the Visa network. that's happened with the rise of e-commerce and mobile payments and fintechs and crypto, all of those things. Hang on to that number for a second, 3.3 trillion transactions. I'm going to come back to that. And as commerce evolves, so do all of our preferences. Buyer and seller preferences change. And we've had a lot of new ways to pay rise up. Account to account payments, BNPL, wallets, crypto. We've had the rise of social commerce. And And now, something we'll talk about today, agent-led commerce. But to get traction, to be meaningful, to have an impact on the world, they have to be on a network that provides safety, security, reliability, fraud protection, cybersecurity, token services, dispute protections, innovation that's going to enable broad-based access. is what Visa does best. Bringing our infrastructure, our capabilities, our services delivered through APIs to deliver all of this around the world. And that powerful combination is what we call Visa as a service. The Visa as a service stack. And at the base of that stack, the foundation of the Visa as a Service stack is global connectivity. Our network connecting users with 4.8 billion credentials to 150 million or more sellers around the world in 200 plus countries and territories in 150 currencies, that's the foundational infrastructure layer that everything in our stack is built on. And then over the years what we've done is we've been on a concerted effort to to build a services architecture where we take our capabilities, such as risk, credential directories, settlement, and all of it, to build componentized services that are available individually or together. And at first we made those available to our Visa product teams so they could build better solutions to distribute around the world, and then we made them available to all of you. We made the services architecture available to our clients and partners all around the world. Those are the unique building blocks of our solutions. And then today, we offer solutions, a range of different types of solutions on top of that services architecture. And they range from on the one end, on demand APIs that you all can consume and incorporate into your products and services in your environment the way that you'd like to, all the way to fully managed solutions where we can build and manage these solutions on your behalf. It's a powerful combination. Visa infrastructure, together with our platform services, with the solutions architecture built on top of it and this Visa as a Service stack enables anyone around the world a small business a fintech a big tech platform a financial institution, to be able to operate at scale immediately, to be able to access Visa's six nines reliability, sub-second response times. In 200-plus countries and territories, It is a powerful combination, and we believe that powerful combination will power the next wave of commerce and money movement, which brings me to today, the Visa product trap. We are very excited to give you a sense of where the Visa as a service stack is going and the solutions that we will be enabling. And at this point, we're all very familiar with the power of AI, the power of LLMs, and how all of this has transformed the world. They are processing massive amounts of data, and they're transforming that data into predictive output that even today, several years later, feels magical. Now, these same technologies have the potential to radically transform commerce, to radically transform how we all shop, how we all buy, and how commerce works at its most fundamental layers. layers. Anyone remember that stat I mentioned just a couple minutes ago? How many transactions we've processed in the last 25 years? This group is on it. 3.3 trillion transactions. And every one of those transactions over every one of those years generates hundreds of data elements. And we have the ability to transform that data to enable each one of those transactions to tell a story based on context. We have the ability to use that data to anticipate buyer and seller behavior and solve real-world problems that exist out in the world. And to use that data to identify patterns, to identify patterns that are happening to enable commerce. So I travel to somewhere in the world, let's say Sydney. I'm able to identify a great coffee shop where I can go get a famous flat white, and I walk in there with my Visa credential, I order my coffee, I tap my credential, I walk out, it takes a couple minutes. It's seamless, but it's not simple. When I tap my card in that coffee shop in Sydney, we're authorizing in milliseconds that transaction. We're scanning it against billions of transactions, identifying anomalies for a consumer half the world away from his home. And like language, payments have rhythm. And understanding that rhythm is what makes the Visa network so powerful. It allows us to distinguish an e-commerce merchant after a major spike in volume and determine whether that was a flash sale and a really good thing or whether it was a fraud attack and something we need to deploy our solutions to quickly shut down. It allows us to understand the rhythms of population and see changes that happen, for example, during Ramadan, when we'll have a big spike in spending locally after 10 p.m. local time, which would be worrisome in most places, but not during Ramadan. Visa recognizes these patterns through our data. We understand the rhythms, and those rhythms are what lead us to be able to build solutions that deliver better buyer experiences. that grow sales for sellers with less fraud and less declines and more completed transactions. We have used AI for many years to build products and solutions that protect our users, both buyers and sellers. And our product teams are now using AI to continue to do that, but also to harness this data to empower our users, to empower buyers and sellers. It's a step change in how we are designing, building, and shipping products at Visa and we believe that it will have a meaningful impact on how commerce works. But for AI driven commerce to work, for agentic commerce to make a difference in the world, we need payments. Without payments, there's no commerce. And today, we are excited to explain to you how the Visa as a Service stack, together with decades of experience that we have bringing products and solutions to market, will drive the next chapter of commerce via AI-driven payments. So we are excited to explain that future to you, but also how all of you will have a simple, easy way to get access to those services and those solutions so that we together can help fuel this next generation of commerce. Thank you for being here. Thank you for your partnership. Thank you for engaging, and I'd like to welcome my partner, Jack Forrestel, to the stage. Thank you. Thank you, Ryan. Good morning, everyone. And thank you for joining here in the studio in San Francisco and live on our streaming broadcast. We have been busy. And we've got a lot to share with you today. We're going to spend most of our time going deep on a new set of capabilities that we're releasing that we really believe can significantly accelerate the advent of AI-driven commerce. We'll then hear a little bit from a special guest and a friend of Visa's, and then we're going to come back and talk through a few updates to our product roadmap, along with two more new products that we're launching here today. So let's dive straight in on AI commerce. At Visa, we've formed the view that AI-driven commerce has the potential to significantly change and improve the digital shopping and buying experience We think the shift could rival the level of impact that e and mobile commerce themselves had. And if you think about it, the real transformational power of e-commerce was rooted in two things. One, it created an inventory of all the products and services in the world and put them on a device that was at our fingertips and always on and connected. This gave us as consumers a massive uplift in our ability to find what we wanted or needed at any moment. Number two, it removed the physical work from commerce. No more spending time moving around physically from store to store discovering things, looking for things. Now, this has all been highly, highly transformational for consumers and businesses alike, but it's also placed a heavy cognitive burden on the consumer, on the user. While you no longer have to physically go out and find merchandise, you do have to find ways to comb through, compare, rate, assess every available product on Earth. This is a reasonably heavy and time-consuming cognitive burden. Now, enter AI agents. AI agents have the potential to remove that cognitive burden, to save the user an extraordinary amount of time. But it's about more than just removing cognitive burden and saving time. Agents also at the same time have the potential to deliver a better shopping and buying experience in almost every dimension, better fit with product, better value, better experience overall. And I would say when you run into a technology that can save people time, remove a cognitive burden, and give them a better outcome, you should pay attention. And consumers are certainly paying attention. Despite the fact that modern generative AI has only been widely available for consumers for a grand sum of 29 months, there are already over a billion users of it out there today. A significant proportion of that billion plus users are using it today to help them with their shopping activities. And of those that do, 92%, it's a big number, 92% tell us that they like it. It enhances their experience. It's better than what they were doing yesterday to help them with their shopping. But you don't have to just listen to what customers are saying. We can watch what they're doing. In 2024, we saw a lift in the volume of internet traffic that was going from generative AI websites directly to retail and merchant websites of over 1200%. So those users who are using AI for shopping, they're taking that mission and they're trying to get it done at a retailer or at a merchant. And those numbers are not abating. This is really happening. I'm going to stop there. This is probably enough of the background and context that I don't feel like I have to really work that hard to convince this crowd that this is important. You probably wouldn't be here if you didn't believe that in the first place. So let's get into what this all might look like. All right, I've mocked up an AI agent here. Just a word of a side. Visa's not here today to announce that we're building or offering an AI agent. We're offering payment capabilities that will power all AI agents. But for the purposes of our conversation, I've mocked up a number of AI agent experiences just to put things in context for you from a user's perspective. So let's imagine, I got my agent here. Let's imagine I want to go to Miami for a long weekend. And I'm going to ask the AI to help me find a weekend that I could make work. So scheduling agent starts, opens my calendar, looking for free weekends. Looks like June 6th and 9th is the only one that works. That's great. Going to ask it to find a flight for me, a hotel. It's scanning available hotel rooms. It's kicking into action on flights. This is looking pretty good. So I'll get it all sorted out. Now I'll ask it to put together a three-day itinerary for me. It's fine. In restaurants, local spots, even reminded me about a ride share that I need from the airport that I forgot about, suggested to me I buy some sunscreen. It's pretty good. Now, that might be a slight exaggeration as to what a current AI agent can do for you, but it's only slight. For me to do that, if I was hyper-efficient, probably would have taken me an hour or more. And this literally can get done in just a few minutes with the help of an AI agent. So this, I'm gonna say, this looks fantastic, love it. I'm gonna ask my agent to book it. Agent's gonna look at everything. It's like, okay, what are the bookable parts of this, the buyable parts of this? Assembles them all, place them back to me. There's a plane ticket, a hotel, a dinner reservation, sunscreen, it's all good. Now I'm gonna say, buy it, agent, buy it. Oh boy. This is where today we run into some serious problems. I'm sorry, I'm not fully trained to make a payment for you. I could direct you to websites where you can make these purchases. This is where all the fun currently ends. My agent isn't trained for payments. It can't work its way through the checkout process without me. I'm gonna need to take over. I'm gonna enter my payment information. Maybe I'll generate a one-time passcode. Maybe I'll enter a CVV, put my address in there. All that magic I was just showing you just kind of evaporated. So much for the cognitive off As Ryan said it without the payment this isn commerce This is just better browsing and searching and window shopping To make AI-driven commerce work, we have to solve the payments problems. And what I just showed you is really just the first payment problem. right? Agents not trained or equipped with the right tools to facilitate payments. That's actually a pretty solvable problem. We could give AI agents payment tools today and they'd be able to go out and access your credentials, your cards, your money and go spend it. That would just uncover a bunch of other really important problems that we need to get solved before we take step one. Those problems, by the way, are largely rooted in trust, in our view. I take it from a consumer's perspective. Can I trust this agent to do what I want it to do and only do what I want it? Can I trust it to buy the things I want it to buy, get it right, and only buy the things I want? From a financial institution's perspective, your responsibility is to safeguard your customers and their funds. is this actually my customer? How do I know? Is this agent legitimate? Is this for real? From a merchant's perspective, is this a valid transaction? Am I actually going to get paid? Is this going to turn into a problem for me down the road? Is this going to turn into a dispute? These are the problems that we set out to solve when we first started our journey into AI commerce in 2024. These are the problems that we are here today to help solve with the product release that we're doing. Now, we're experts in payments. We've ushered in the era of e-commerce and mobile commerce. In fact, the very first e-commerce transaction in history was done on a Visa card. But as we have done those things, We've always done it in partnership and collaboration. In partnership and collaboration with our own ecosystem, in partnership and collaboration with leading thinkers in industry. And that is exactly what we've been doing here in AI commerce. Let's take a look at a few of the companies that we have been working with. Let's start with OpenAI. Now, most of us had our very first introduction to generative AI with ChatGPT. That moment, that chat GPT moment in November of 2022, is going to go down as a historic turning point in the annals of technology in innovation. But in the 29 months, it's only been that long since that moment, OpenAI has become a powerhouse across a broad spectrum of consumer and enterprise AI-driven tools and use cases. So it was natural for us to want to work with them as the leader in this space and for them to want to work with us as the leader in payments. We'll hear a little bit more directly from OpenAI later on this morning. We're really excited to be partnering with Perplexity. Perplexity is one of the fastest growing AI platforms. It's focused squarely on building rich shopping and commerce experiences. We're excited about the creative, out-of-the-box, leading work that Perplexity is pursuing. And I'll mention a few things that we're doing with them as I get into the presentation a little bit later on. We're also working with Microsoft, a leader in AI development, uniquely positioned with operating system productivity and cloud assets for both consumers and business customers worldwide. We're working with Anthropic, whose steep expertise in AI reliability, their proven track record in developer adoption, is going to help everyone deliver smarter, safer, faster payments at scale. And we're collaborating with companies all around the world, including notably Mistral, Europe's largest AI company. So the collaboration, the problem solving that we've been pursuing with these players has been absolutely invaluable. It's informed and instructed the work that our Visa teams have been delivering, and we believe it has made our solution that much stronger. And it's on the back of all this hard work and industry collaboration that I am really excited to introduce and unveil to you now Visa Intelligent Commerce, a new way to buy with AI in the same trusted, secure way to pay. Let's take a look at what we think AI-driven commerce really should look like. Introducing Visa Intelligent Commerce. Allowing AI to shop and buy. Add. Smile. Done. It's that simple. You're in control to make the final call. Or you set the limits and let it do the rest. New way to buy? Same trusted, secure way to pay. Visa Intelligent Commerce. Use AI to buy. All right, what did you think? That is a world we all want to live in, right?

And we can and we will, but I have a lot of unpacking to do now because I want to tell you what sits behind Visa Intelligent Commerce. And let's start the unpacking. There are three pieces to it. First, AI ready cards. We are upgrading your Visa card to make sure your financial institution and merchants know that this agent is legitimate, it's acting on your behalf, that you are you, and we're adding new layers of protection, trust, and control. Second, simple and secure AI payments. Remember that transaction that failed earlier? We're going to help make it work flawlessly and we're gonna do it in a way that gives all the parties involved the trust, the transparency, the data, and the control that they need. Now, these two go a long way to solving all the problems that I teed up earlier, but we wanted to go past just solving the problems, and we believe we found a way to add significant new utility to the AI experience itself. We're going to do this through AI-powered personalization by injecting insights from billions of payment transactions into AI commerce. We're going to do that while keeping you in control and possession of your data at all times. Let's get into the technology that we've built, the product that we've built that underpins all of this. For AI-ready cards, we're delivering two capabilities, tokenization and authentication. These two services have been the workhorses of our digital commerce strategy for the last decade, and we're changing and adapting them for the agent-powered world. For personalization, we're upgrading a capability that we introduced a year ago called data tokens and making it integration-ready for AI agents. And finally, for simple and secure AI payments, we're introducing two new services. One, it's called payment instructions, which will ensure that users and agents are aligned on purchase intent. When we're granting an agent autonomy, it's really important for us to be aligned on the consumer, the user's intent. The second service is payment signals, which is about providing a rich contextual data set to all parties to ensure accurate transaction processing, efficient post-purchase servicing, and effective fraud prevention. Now, I want to take you through how all these five services play together to deliver a great AI and agentic user experience. Let's start with AI-ready cards. We introduced tokenization in 2014, and the idea here is super simple. A token replaces your 16-digit card number with a unique 16-digit cryptographically protected code. Simple as that. And tokenization, our efforts in tokenization, have been so successful in driving improvements in transaction authorization and reducing fraud that we are now at over 13 billion tokens in force globally, almost 14 billion tokens. We're taking all that technology and we're adapting it to work in AI commerce. And this is how it's going to work. First, you're going to be authenticated by your bank. We need to know that you are you. That is a root of trust that we need to begin with. We're going to do that using Visa's authentication protocols and our connectivity to nearly 14,500 financial institutions. Once we know that you are you, we'll generate a token that will be specific to your AI agent. agent. We'll then take that token and we will bind it to your agent platform through what we call domain controls. That just means that your token cannot be used by anyone or anything other than you and your agent. And on top of that, we're layering programmability. Every Visa token provisioned into an agent environment will be default locked and can only be activated when you tell the agent what you want it to do. So in short, nothing happens without your permission. Now, the inner workings of all this can sound a little complicated, in part because it is a little complicated. But I guarantee you, this is incredibly simple and straightforward from a user's perspective. Let's take a look at what that might look like. Let's go back to our AI agent and ask it to buy something. It says, I want to buy a saltwater fly reel. My team knows I like fishing, so I guess they put that in there. Now, the very first time you use your agent for AI commerce, the agent's going to detect a buy signal from you and prompt you to load a card so that you can enable that agent. I emphasize, this is just the first time. You need to get your agent ready for shopping. You need to do it one time. From that point onward, your agent's going to be ready to go and shop for you on your behalf. Now, we need to get the card information into the agent. We can do that in a number of ways. Tapping is the most secure way to do it, but you could key enter it, you could scan it, whatever method the AI platform supports. So we'll go ahead and tap it. We'll then ask you for an authentication signal. In the background, we'll call out to your bank. We will validate that authentication signal. We'll record the authentication. and from the user's perspective, that's it. It's as simple as that. Your AI agents ask you to load the card you load it you authenticate and you done Behind the scenes we creating that token we creating the binding to your agent and your agent is ready to go tokenized authenticated that it So now that we've got our agent loaded up and you're in control, we know your payment credentials are safe and they're secure, we can start getting to the more fun parts of all of this. So let's go back to that trip to Miami that I was talking about. Let's restart the planning process. We'll ask this agent to put together a three-day weekend in June. It's thinking about it, showing me some stuff. All right. It's giving me some choices, some budget hotels. It doesn't really know what I like, right? It's like budget hotels, mid-range hotels, luxury hotels. That's good. It's giving me restaurants, like lots of different ones. Not sure, maybe a day at the beach seems like what most people do when they go to Miami, I guess. Now, again, that was great. That would have saved me a lot of time compared to just me doing all those little pieces of it myself. But I'll tell you what, I hate the beach. I don't like the beach at all. There's not much me in those search results. But what if, what if I could personalize that search with my likes and my interests? Imagine if my whole purchase history could be used to power that AI-driven shopping experience. That is just what we've built. And as I mentioned earlier, we've done it in a way that makes sure your data remains your data and that you remain in control of your data at all times. All right, so it's asking me to opt in for personalization. Let's go ahead and toggle this thing on, provide the consent, and then rerun this thing. All right. Okay, now we get to the hotels. Now it's not asking me about budget and all that stuff. It actually knows the kinds of hotels that I tend to like to stay at, and it can translate that into Miami, where I'm not that familiar with what the hotels look like, but it's telling me the kinds of places that I like. This is great. Instead of just giving me a list of every restaurant in Miami and all the different kinds of food, it's like, Jack, you probably like Cubano's and sushi, which is actually very true. It keeps going. Activities, car racing, Post Malone concert, fishing. This is more like it, not the beach. You can see there's a potential for a massive improvement and the quality of these results, if we can get this right. Our internal testing has shown consistent, better results in this kind of curated discovery. But it's not just us internally, our partners excited about this too. I mentioned Perplexity earlier. We're really excited about the work we're doing with Perplexity, and as our first use case with Perplexity, we're pursuing integrating the personalization service that I just showed you with the Perplexity platform. One more word on this before I leave it, because this is very important to us. The protection of data, privacy, consent, the control of data. I want to emphasize, we're not actually sharing any raw user data. So over here on your left, you can see all these descriptors. These are features or insights that are part of a model that we've built for each individual Visa card. The model's dynamic and it updates as your purchase history evolves. Only these insights will be delivered to the AI provider. Your transaction data remains your personal data and isn't shared. You get to decide which provider can access your insights and you get to choose to stop sharing with the provider at any time. Moving to the middle of the screen, we're incredibly focused on consent and control. We believe you should retain control over the data and that consent should be very simple to use, very simple to undo, and be very clear. We're delivering the ability to activate or deactivate personalization on a per session, per query basis, and to put that control at both the AI agent level and at the issuing bank level. level. And finally, over on the right, let's take a look at how we're delivering these insights to the agent. We'll deliver the insights in a natural language format that can be added into the agent's context window. Think of the context window as the agent's short-term memory, as opposed to the long-term memory as part of the large language model structure itself. Agents and LLMs allow you, the user, to manage the context window. So you can keep your data in there if you like, but if you want to take it out, you want to erase it, you can do it. It's your choice. So not only are we not sharing your raw data, we're sharing insights into the context window, which is a short-term memory of the model, and you can choose to leave it there or erase it if you want to. We're really excited about the balance that we think we've achieved here of driving potentially significant improvements in user experience while really maintaining control in the hands of the user over their data. On to the most important part, the actual payment itself. Let's go back to my agent. Looks good. It's changed everything. It's got all my preferences in there now. It's got the fishing trip and everything. So let's ask it to buy my flight, my hotel, and we'll throw in this fishing reel thing here. Now, once the agent detects the signal that I asking it to make a purchase it going to play back the parameters of my purchase and ask me to confirm Here it showing the set of items I asked it to buy with prices and names of merchants I want to pause here for a second because this, this is a really important moment. Because at this moment, we are about to grant the agent the authority to access my payment credential and use it on my behalf. We're going to grant the agent the ability to access my money and spend it. This is some new territory here, and we need to make sure that the agent and I are both clear on what the scope of that authority is. As a user, I'm looking at this. It looks good. So I'm going to say yes, buy it. Now, to make sure I'm in control, Visa's payment instruction API is going to record the parameters that I agreed to and store them for later. The little green bubbles here, which by the way I promise you will never show up as part of a user experience. They're just there to help us understand how the data flows work. But the little green bubbles represent the data that will be recorded in the payment instruction. It's my intent to buy. We're going to store that over on the left-hand side of the page. Once we've done that, the agent's just going to ask me for an authentication, make sure it's me so that we know it's me. I do that, validate, and sign off on the payment instruction. From my perspective as a user, I'm all done. All I had to do was have a conversational commerce conversation with my agent, get presented some stuff I want to buy, and basically say yes with an authentication. And now I can go off and do other things. The agent can then go ahead and get busy shopping. All of what I'm showing you now is part of the agent working. The agent's now booking my flight. It's booking my hotel. It's buying my fishing reel. And when the agent gets just to the point of purchase, we want to make sure that the purchase matches up with the original payment instruction. Just prior to that payment, the agent We'll invoke Visa Signals API and populate it with a description of the purchase. That's represented by the little white bubbles up here. We will take in that purchase signal and compare it to the original payment instruction. And if there's a match, we'll enable the agent to use my AI-ready token and submit payment details to the merchant. In this case, they match up. So the agent's now providing payment details to the merchant. Now the agent part is done. And remember, all this is happening while I, the user, am off enjoying all my newfound free time, because I'm not needing to do this anymore. If I was efficient, this whole thing probably would have taken me an hour. But what does the future of AI commerce really look like? It looks like this. My flight's booked. My hotel's reserved. My phishing reel is now on the way. This is the power of agents. This is the power of AI commerce. And this is the future with Visa Intelligent Commerce. Thank you. All right. So these are the five services that power Visa Intelligent Commerce. We're delivering them by a one unified API. The services are available today for sandbox access for registered partners at our developer center. The APIs will also be available through a model context protocol server that we are building. It will be available in June, and that will enable AI agents and large language models to access, discover, authenticate, invoke all of the services in a native LLM fashion. So that's the tech. The tech's the tech. we got to bring all this to life. And I said earlier, it's going to take our whole ecosystem to make it work. The AI platforms behind me and many others are critical, critical to all of this, but they're not the only ones. Our financial institution and merchant partners are our network. They're not just part of our network. They are the backbone of our network. We have been, and we will be working hand in glove with our financial institution, our merchant, our acquirer partners to deliver this magical experience that works for their customers, for their shoppers, and for their users. This is going to be an iterative process, and we're really just at the beginning of all of it. It doesn't stop there, though. There are many other enablers at work here, from payments of service providers like Stripe, AI infrastructure enablers like scale, B2B enablers like RAMP, all have a role to play here. So I thought it'd be fun to hear how a few of our partners are thinking about all of this. There are really three pillars that are involved in building the future of AI. The first is compute, you know, new chips, new hardware. The second are software, new algorithms, those that are created by the large model research labs. But the third and maybe the most important ingredient today is really data. Data is really the critical piece to make sure that those agents can be used in a way that human beings can trust them and rely upon them and actually use them to change how commerce is done. Maybe the last place you'd want just random AI applied is with your money. You want a trusted set of parties. You want to know what's going to happen. You want to permission how your purchase is going to work online. That feels extra important in the world of AI commerce rather than just typing into a checkout form and hitting enter, but delegating your trust to a third party, to an AI agent, to buy on your behalf is very powerful, but it's going to need to come with a lot of trust. Just like in the first wave of the internet, it was important for people to develop trust before they could transact online. It's going to be even more important as we enter the agentic era. And that why it is so pivotal to have brands and products innovating in this space that users already know trust and are comfortable with All right, it's great. And now I'd like to introduce my partner, Oliver Jenkins, and bring him on stage. Oliver's going to talk about bringing all of this to life with our partners. Oliver. Thanks, Jack. Thanks very much, Jack. Good morning, everyone. My name is Oliver Jenkin. I'm group president at Visa with responsibility for our global markets. At Visa, we operate in over 200 countries and territories around the globe. And our goal in each of those markets is to effectively serve our clients. Issuers, acquirers, merchants, payfax, fintechs, and large digital platforms. Our goal is to effectively and efficiently serve our clients to help them achieve their goals, their aspirations, and their vision. That's our goal. To that end, on the stage today, you're going to hear a lot about Visa's product roadmap, our tech development priorities, and where we think we need to go as an industry to deliver on the promise of AI commerce. You're going to hear a lot of that on the stage today. It's my team's responsibility to take that high-level vision and translate it through into specific actions to make it a reality. So in the weeks ahead, Visa's market and client teams around the world will work with your teams. From Riyadh to Singapore, from New York to Johannesburg, from Sydney to Buenos Aires, our teams will work closely with your teams to take high-level, exciting, 40-point font presentations and translate it through to a series of eight-point font, tangible, tactical, practical steps that you all can take in your markets to deliver value to your clients based on your priorities to deliver on your strategy. That's what we're going to be focusing on in the weeks ahead with all of our partners. And as we have these conversations, we want to hear from you. We want to compare notes on what you're seeing and thinking for AI-based commerce. We want your feedback and reactions. We want your edits and modifications. We want to go into much greater detail about the operational and technical specifics behind which Jack has shared on stage thus far today. We want to have this conversation with you to make this a reality. Today's meeting is very much the beginning of a journey. Today we're planting a flag for where we think we need to go on AI commerce, where we need to go as an industry on AI commerce. That's what we're doing today. And tomorrow the real work begins to roll up our sleeves and make it a reality. And we're really looking forward to having those conversations with all of you in the days and weeks ahead to make it a reality. We want to have that conversation with all of you, our critical, critical partners. Okay. Now, talking about partners, I had a wonderful conversation this past weekend with a long-time friend and great Visa partner. And it wasn't just any partner that I was talking with this past weekend. It's someone who's got a really unique perspective on what's happening in generative AI and AI-based commerce. And as we were planning for this meeting, we spent a lot of time thinking about who is the external voice that we want to have on the stage with us today? Who is the external voice that we want to share their perspective amidst Visa's product drop? And as we thought about that, there were a few criteria. We wanted someone who knew technology very well. We wanted someone who had a front row seat to what's happening in generative AI. We wanted someone who knew payments as well as me and Ryan and Jack and other folks at Visa. And we also wanted someone who knew Visa very well, who knows how we go to market and how we operate and what we're trying to achieve. And when we looked at the overlapping Venn diagram circles, there weren't a lot of names in the middle of that overlap. In fact, there was one name in particular of someone's voice that we really wanted to have here today with us in the product draw. And so this past weekend, I got in my car, I drove down the street to my neighbor's house, and I had a conversation with this person, and we're going to roll it for you in just a second. But the person that we had the chat with is the former CFO of Square, the former CEO of Nextdoor, the current CFO of OpenAI, and an all-around just wonderful person, Sarah Fryer. I hope you enjoy the conversation. Well, so you're the perfect person to have at our Visa product drop because you've got a wonderful background in technology across multiple roles. You have a front seat to GenFAI and agentic commerce in your current role. And you know payments so incredibly well from your leadership time at Square. Why don't we leverage that incredible experience and pedigree and talk a bit about agentic commerce. The audience has just heard from Ryan and Jack about Visa's excitement for agentic commerce in the years ahead. But when you talk about agentic commerce at OpenAI, what's top of mind for you in terms of the vision of where it could go? And perhaps more broadly, how do you feel or what do you feel that commerce could look like in the two or three years ahead? Sure. I mean, it's not even two or three years. I think it's happening right now. If you look within ChatGPT searches, for example, you will see a vast number of searches that are really commerce searches. So particularly in areas where people want to look for either high consideration, high intention type purchases, that is one of the biggest changes that we see is the depth of research a consumer can do, the way you can interact with ChatGPT to make it completely a conversation. And then importantly,

From there, how do we think about how agents are going to start maybe even talking to a seller's agent and actually consummating a sale over time? But one of the other things that the audience heard in our conversation thus far this morning was about the capabilities that Visa is investing in to help enable the industry move towards agentic commerce. Things like the ability to provision a token to an agent so they can actually make purchases. the ability to put controls and permissions around that payment credential to restrict or control what the agent can actually do with it, and providing data tokens to that agent so it can personalize its shopping based on my purchase history. I think those are all helpful enablers. But when you look at what you're building for agentic commerce at OpenAI, any reactions to some of what Visa's investing in for the industry? Yeah, well, first of all, we love what you're doing. I've gone pretty deep on it and you're absolutely headed in the right direction. And I love that Visa is kind of getting out ahead, in particular, thinking about agentic commerce, agent-agent commerce. I mean, first, from our perspective, trust and transparency are always everything. And I would say that back with my payments hat on at Square and today all the way through to OpenAI. So we need to make sure that consumers feel like they know what's happening, why it's happening, and that it feels very much like something you have control on. So we can never lose that trust. We want to make sure they deeply see it as the model giving them the best answer, not an answer that got skewed by, say, our business model or a decision on something like advertising. So trust transparency. I think secondly, make it seamless. Like we want to make sure is that sellers don't feel disintermediated, that instead it's just releasing a new way to talk to customers and how do sellers really get involved on that. I love what you said about things like permissions, thinking about the agent-agent piece, like the kind of payment nerd in me starts to think about things like, how do you think about fraud and risk in that situation? As humans, we have a remarkable facility to deal with mass change. And I think the same will be true, you know, even how we see people using Operator today. So Operator is browser-based, can go interact with any website. It can already book an Uber for you. It can book a meal for you. it can book a flight for you. It's already on that motion, but we stop it at the payment because we want people to feel trust, transparency, control, permissions. But I think you all will have a real role to play here in making people feel that it's safe and secure. And then finally interoperability, that it has to be a must, right? Commerce, as you know, can be both incredibly local and incredibly global, but I think in this case, there's gonna be a lot of global commerce going on. And that's where a network like Visa comes into its own. That's great. Thank you. And I'm so delighted that the payment nerd is still alive and well anew. I'm delighted to see that as a payment nerd myself. Why don't we focus now on specifically the consumer side of the commerce ecosystem? Let's think about some of the potential hurdles or speed bumps that might give consumers some pause to lean into heavily into agentic commerce. Give your thoughts on that. I mean, I think with any new technology, there's always that nervousness, first of all, of things like privacy and so on. So I think we need to be really careful. That goes back to the point about trust and transparency and making sure that people can choose when they want something like memory to kick in and when they want to do a search, for example, that does not get in any way recorded for kind of posterity in their memory. So I think that's one area we need to be really mindful of. I think also meeting people where they are. I like to go to the mall with my daughter. I already said it. It's more of like a hangout moment for us than anything else. But that doesn't mean that there aren't tons of use cases in my life where I do not want to spend any time on the commerce thing. There's a reason why I have subscriptions for things like toothpaste or floss or whatever, because I know I need it. I just want it to show up magically in my bathroom. And so I don't even have to think about it. So I think it's finding that balance of where people have maybe it's almost a pastime for them versus it has a utilitarian aspect to it. And this comes back to personalization, not just at the consumer level. And I think we'll probably segue to sellers. But I think the long tail, I get really excited about the long tail of sellers. I mean, what did the Internet bring us? It brought us this amazing platforms like Etsy and so on. It brought us this incredible personalization to the seller side, too. or what the world of creators, like what happened as social commerce came upon us. I think we're just going to unlock that more and more because we're going to really democratize not just what I want and what I think is personal, but how a seller could meet me where I am and even create things maybe on the fly for me knowing that I have these preferences. So let's continue down this path of the seller's perspective on the future of agentic commerce. If you were talking to some of your sellers back in your days at Square, what would you say to them about why they should be getting excited about the possibilities in genetic commerce? What would be the two or three things that you would want to highlight to them? Yeah, the fascinating thing is like whether you're the largest retailer in the world all the way down to literally someone where it might be their side hustle. I think first of all, there's this massive unlock around conversational commerce. So, I'll give you more in a large big box retailer example. If you do a search today on any of the big store sites, say I want to have a unicorn birthday party, you will get a horrible response. You might get 4,000 unicorn plates. You might get a unicorn party hat, like whatever it is. In a conversational commerce moment, what you really want is the agent to respond, that's like fun, like who are you having the party for? And if I'm having the party for Oliver, that very different from having a party for my two I think the key as a seller is you never want to feel like you getting disintermediated So how do you embrace what Gen AI is going to bring you immediately Because it's there for you. You don't have to. This is not the future we're talking about. This is today. Sarah Fryer, thank you so much for chatting with all of us today. We really appreciate it. Thank you for the long-term partnership that we've had. Thank you for the more recent partnership we have between Visa and OpenAI. Thank you, Sarah. Take care. Sarah is great, as always. I hope you enjoyed the conversation. It actually went on, the discussion went on much longer than that because there's so many threads to pull on and so much to talk about and so many aligned perspectives. But one of the things that Sarah and I spoke about at length off camera was the question of how do you build excitement for AI commerce with someone who's less close to the technology and therefore less tapped into the possibilities? How do you paint a positive picture to get everyone excited? And I think this is really important for all of us. if agentic commerce, if AI commerce is going to be everything that we in this room want it to be, if AI commerce is going to be everything that we in this room are investing and building for it to be, then we need to bring everyone along with us. Not just us, this collection of us. We need to bring everyone along with us. We need my retired mother in rural Canada to be adopting. We need my cousin, the veterinarian in Scotland, to be engaged. We need my former roommate, the artist in Cairo to be a power user. We need all of those things to be happening. And so thus far in this room, we've assumed a level of knowledge and sophistication that's enabled Jack to come up here and get more specific about, okay, what's going on in the APIs? And what's happening technically behind the scenes? And how is it all going to work for the magic to happen? And I think that's all incredibly important and appropriate for this setting. But again, in order to gain the broad adoption that we want of AI-based commerce, we need to pull everyone along with us. And that's going to require a little bit more storytelling, a little bit more marketing, a little bit more having some fun with it to bring everyone else around. Folks who are less concerned about what happens in the technology in the background, they just want to experience the magic. And so you can always count on Visa to be part of that storytelling and marketing journey to bring the market along and to move the market around the world. And so to that end, I'll leave you with such a marketing piece. This is the San Francisco 49ers, Christian McCaffrey, living his best agentic commerce self. Thanks, everybody. Mom and dad need flights. non-stop only comfortable seats done you'll need a hotel let's go nice little less fancy done let's make sure everyone has the right look perfect one less I guess Good boy. Please welcome back Jack Forrestel. All right, I'm back. Thank you, Oliver, and a special thank you to Sarah Fryer at OpenAI. Also, thank you to Christian McCaffrey for doing that. and to his dog, Oliver Sprinkles, who I think kind of stole the show there. By the way, I think Oliver Sprinkles probably has more Instagram followers than every person in this room in San Francisco combined. All right, we're going to finish this out with three updates to our product roadmap and two more product launches. The updates are going to cover digital identity, flex credentials, stable coins, and then the two new products that we're excited to be launching here today are Visa Pay and Visa Accept. Let's get started with digital identity. Maybe the most important thing that we do is to ensure that the user of a Visa card is the appropriate and rightful user of that Visa card. In the physical world, we kind of have this nailed, right? We embed a physical card with a cryptographically protected chip with a tokenized representation of your account number on it that cannot be counterfeited. Then our issuing partners ensure that these cards are physically delivered to you, mailed to your house, picked up in a branch, but we physically ensure that you are you and and you're in possession of this counterfeit proof card. When that card shows up at the physical point of sale and we validate the token on the chip, we are highly, highly, highly confident that it is you. And that has resulted in massive improvements over years in transaction success rates and in reductions in fraud at the physical point of sale. Amazing. Yeah, not so yet in the digital world. In the digital world, we're still stuck with the lowest common denominator of manual key entry, which gives rise to this problem, which is that we see eight times higher fraud online than we see in person, and we see 600 basis points, six full percentage points of lower or worse transaction authorization rates in digital than we see in the physical world I wanna update you on three efforts that we driving to solve this problem The first is tokenization Today, nearly 50% of our digital transactions are tokenized and the growth continues to be tremendous. We added a billion tokens just in the last quarter. right we know that bringing physical card security to the digital environment through tokenization works which is why it is our objective to get to 100 percent tokenization let me say that again it is our objective to get to 100 percent tokenization and we are pursuing a myriad initiatives in order to get us there. I will highlight just one of them here this morning, and that's our tap-to-add card solution. I showed it to you in passing in our AI Commerce demo. Simply tap your card, and you can instantly create a strong root of trust between you, your digital token, and your bank issuer. We launched this last year, just months ago. we have about 150 issuers participating it in 35 different markets around the world. And here in the US, we have seen 90% lower fraud. I didn't say 19%. I really actually said 90% lower fraud. That is amazing. We're going to scale this. We're going to launch this. We're going to take it to more markets and more use cases. Next, data. When it comes to securing payments and fighting fraud, data is like our best friend. For the past year, we've been piloting four additional data attributes, things like device ID, and taking those attributes and simply passing them from our partners, Stripe, Square, and Adia, and been working with us on this, to 17 of the top 20 issuing banks in the United States. Four data elements, we've processed more than 50 million transactions with these additional data elements and we've seen nearly 400 basis points, higher approval rates and almost 40% lower fraud just from adding those extra data elements to our authorization data payload. We're very excited about the potential for our enhanced data solution. And lastly, we see a future where we completely replace passwords, one-time passcodes, all that stuff, with biometrics. In 2024, we announced the launch of Visa Payment Passkeys, a biometric solution based on cross-industry standards. And we've been deploying it across Europe with great early results. We're going to be expanding all of this, tap to add card and many other vectors of tokenization, our enhanced data solution that I just described, and payment pass keys globally in 2025 and into 2026. All right, let's do Flex Credential. Last year, we reinvented the card when we launched the Visa Flexible Credential. The Flexible Credential lets cardholders use a single Visa credential or token or card to access and switch between multiple funding sources like debit and credit. We started out with a few funding source combinations like debit, credit, buy now, pay later. But we have been absolutely blown away by the use cases that our partners have brought to the table over the last year, from small business use cases, multi-currency, secured credit, brokerage accounts, and of course, agentic commerce. Our clients are seeing Flex as a platform for innovation. We're excited about it because we designed it as a platform for innovation. And today, I'm happy to tell you, we have more than 200 clients in our Flex pipeline working on it. And I'm thrilled to announce that processors all over the world are integrating Flex into their capabilities. FIS, Marketo, Stripe, Talus, Openway, Thread, Network International, BPC, and many others on the way. We've seen great momentum with some of our pioneering Flex clients. Those have been out there for a year or more. Our first partner was SMBC Bank in Japan. And over the last year, their Flex cardholder base grew 156%. And it wasn't small to start with. And their Flex cardholders transacted 40% more compared to non-Flex cardholders. Affirm launched Flex less than six months ago and are bringing Flex to Affirm's cardholder base of 1.7 million active users. Affirm card users spend 85% more than an average active Affirm user. Excited about all of these programs. We're not stopping there. Today, we want to announce three new partners. Live, a digital bank in the United Arab Emirates, will be our very first live multi-currency card use case. We're working to integrate Flex with Current here in the U.S. for debit-to-credit use cases. And I'm really pleased to announce that Visa and Klarna are partnering to launch Flex both in the United States and in Europe. and Klarna will be our first partner to offer Flex in Europe. Let's talk a little bit about stablecoins. At Visa, we've been working in the crypto and stablecoin space for years now. And we've been working with stablecoins because we believe they have the potential to both modernize the world money movement infrastructure which is in need of modernization and deliver on the promise of programmable money. We've got three areas of focus within this. One, cards, where we provide a platform for buying and spending stablecoin through cards. Two, settlement, where we're providing settlement services natively in stablecoins to our partners, and three, programmable money where we're helping our partners mint and burn their own stablecoins. Let's start with card. For years now, we've been working with custodial exchanges like Crypto.com and Coinbase to enable users to buy cryptocurrency with their Visa cards and spend their cryptocurrency through crypto-linked Visa cards. To date, we've facilitated the purchase of $95 billion worth of crypto, and we've facilitated the spend of $25 billion worth of crypto through those crypto-linked Visa cards. But most of this volume to date has been about users buying and largely holding cryptocurrencies in exchanges as an investment. What we're seeing now as stable coins begin to scale are new use cases, new opportunities that extend well beyond the buy and hold. The demand is coming from fintechs and merchants and wallets and lots of others who are helping businesses solve real world problems. Like managing multi-country payroll for freelancers. Imagine you're running a freelance platform. You've got freelancers all over the world and you need to pay them. Stablecoins set up incredibly well for that. Now, once your end users have stablecoins, like take the freelance example, they need to be able to spend them. And stablecoins, not widely accepted. That's where we come in. We offer the ability to spend stablecoins at over 150 million merchant locations around the world. And here, we're excited to announce Bridge, a Stripe company, as our newest stablecoin partner. Through our partnership, Bridge and Visa will enable developers to offer stablecoin-linked Visa cards to customers in multiple countries through one single API. A new and unique capability that we're really excited to bring to market. We're seeing a ton of demand in this space, by the way. In addition to Bridge, we got new partners like Banks and Rain who are enabling new use cases for stablecoins like self-custodial wallets and commercial cards. And we expect to see more and more of this demand as things unfold. Moving to settlement. So when we started working with stablecoin native companies years ago, they approached us with a question. They said, you know, our users are spending from a balance of stablecoins. We operate our own business using stablecoins. We think of stablecoins as just another form of currency. Why can't we settle with you, Visa, directly behind the scenes in the stablecoins? And we said, this actually seems like a very reasonable question, a reasonable ask. So in 2023, we enabled our first pilot for paying acquirers in USDC. Today, Visa partners like Crypto.com, Nuve, Zappo, and Rain rain have chosen to settle with Visa using USDC. To date, we've settled over $225 million worth of transactions, and we expect our volumes to cross the billion-dollar threshold in the next 12 months or so. Ultimately, we expect most of our clients that are transacting natively in stablecoin, which we see growing quickly, to move to some form of on-chain settlement with us, and our infrastructure is ready for it. Lastly, stable coins have the potential to deliver on the promise of programmable money. And by that I mean the conversion of money into software that can be integrated into a wide variety of financial algorithms, products, and use cases via smart contracts. For example, a loan could be programmed to self-disperse automatically or over time once certain criteria are met, right? An algorithm. We're experimenting with programmable money through our Visa tokenized asset platform. And the platform enables financial institutions to mint and burn their own stable coins and by extension to offer their customers programmable money all while leaving the underlying assets at the bank. Our first partner is BBVA in Spain. They're using a platform to issue their own Euro-denominated stablecoin, where the tokenized assets will be held in a BBVA wallet. We're planning to expand the availability of this platform to more partners in 2025. All right. Our last two products. They're both designed to expand access to the Visa network. One for consumers, the other one for sellers. They say pictures say a thousand words. So I guess videos must say like a million words or something. So why don't we watch a quick video that'll give you a sense for what these two products are all about and then I'll come back and describe them in a little more detail. Payments happen differently in every corner of the world. But with Visa, mobile wallets can pay anywhere Visa is accepted. From street stalls in Rio to virtual storefronts in Rayon. Visa can connect people to more ways to pay. And for small sellers, accepting payments is easier than ever. No extra hardware. Ready for the next sale. Just tap, click, and pay.

Done. Enabling sellers to accept directly to their Visa and mobile wallets to pay anywhere Visa is accepted. All right. Let's jump straight into Visa Pay. There are almost 4 billion people around the world using some form of mobile wallets. And mobile wallets take a lot of different shapes. There are super apps. There are mobile money apps. There are marketplace apps. There are a lot of different varieties. But a feature that they generally have in common is that they do not work outside their own proprietary acceptance footprint. What that means is wallets are limited in their ability to provide their own users access to merchants outside their home market, online, and sometimes even within their home market. Simply put, mobile wallets lack the global acceptance scale of Visa, the ability to work with over 150 million merchants worldwide. Until today, because we're introducing Visa Pay, the new service that we've designed to connect any participating wallet to any Visa accepting merchant, local, international, in online wherever Visa is accepted your wallet will just work Let take a look at how this works Visa VisaPay is embedded right in the Wallet app We work with the wallet partner to do this We've streamlined the experience, so there's no complicated enrollment process, no separate card to manage. Just click to activate. Let's click it, activate. We're doing the work behind the scenes. It's done. I wish I could give you a more complicated demo, but it really is just that simple. it's simply like opting into the service and once you set it up a new payment icon is added to your wallet you can use the balance in your mobile wallet anywhere Visa is accepted by tapping in store clicking online or scanning QR codes so you click the tap icon and your wallet activates you tap your phone to the payment terminal you've paid and you're done we're excited about this we're launching this year with four partners in four different markets all based in Asia where wallets abound line pay in Taiwan with close to 13 million users Zalo pay in Vietnam with over 14 million users Maya in the Philippines with four 5.4 million users and worry card in South Korea with over three and a half million active app users all right let's talk about our last one for the day Visa except There are by our estimates about 350 million micro out there in the world today And most of them the vast majority of them do not have the ability to accept Visa cards today The good news, though, is that the bulk of them have an NFC-capable smartphone. So, we're introducing Visa Accept, a new visa service that can be activated on NFC-capable smartphones with just a few clicks. If you are a small seller and you have an account with a visa-issuing bank, you can have the option to accept card payments right on your mobile device. Let's check out how this one works. First, we've built an SDK that your bank can integrate into their app. Similar to Visa Pay, it delivers a super streamlined experience. There's no complicated enrollment. There's no card thing to manage. It's really just a click to activate. We and the bank do all the work behind the scenes. So this is going to feel pretty similar to the last one. I'm going to say get started. And activating. And that's kind of it. There's not a lot to it. Once it's activated, a new payment icon for accepting payments is added into your banking app. You can press that, it says new sale there. Just enter the amount of the purchase let your buyer tap their card to your phone and you selling Just like that. Transactions then get logged into your bank account in real time, so you can transact and then you can look in your bank account and see a few minutes later, there it is, and that's it. Visa Accept is being released for beta partners in July of this year. Our first activations are going to be in Latin America and Asia, in Guatemala and Vietnam to be specific. Okay. That's it. We have covered a lot of ground today. For those of you here in the room in San Francisco, thank you so much for coming. Please make sure you check out the product showcase before you go. We've loaded all the products that we've talked about here today into the showcase so you can experience them for yourselves. For those of you on the livestream, thank you so much for tuning in. That's all for now. Thank you. Thank you.